Prologue 1: To Understand Her Alien Mind

Kasumi Goto was laying on her bed in the port observation deck, reading a stolen, first-edition hardback of Pride and Prejudice, when the door to her sanctuary opened with a metallic whine, breaking her concentration. A visitor?

Who could it be?

She closed her book, only to spot Tali stepping inside, wringing her hands. The poor girl looked tense and nervous. Was something wrong? Tali was normally so bright and energetic whenever she came here to talk.

“Hey, Tali,” Kasumi said, setting the book aside, “what brings you here?”

“Kasumi?”

“Yes?”

“We’re friends, right?”

“Of course we are,” she said, trying to keep her voice as reassuring as possible. She got off the bed, then approached her. “Why would you think otherwise?”

“No…” Tali said, avoiding eye contact, touching her visor with one hand. “It’s not that. It’s just…” She took a deep breath, then locked eyes with her. “I need to talk to you about something. You’re the only one on this ship who can help me understand.”

Clearly, something was eating at her. Whatever it was, she’d be there for her, for the little sister she never had. She put her hand on Tali’s shoulder, then led her to the nearby couch. There, they sat beside each other.

“Understand what?” she asked.

Tali took a deep breath. “Keelah, where do I begin? Just recently, the most wonderful thing happened to me. Jane, she…”

“She what?”

“She confessed her feelings for me,” Tali said. “She said she wanted me and not anybody else.”

She gasped, placing one hand over her mouth. So that dense knucklehead finally did it. Good for her. “That’s amazing, Tali. I’m so happy for you.” She tilted her head. Tali’s posture looked slumped. “You don’t seem very excited, though. Is something wrong? Normally, Shep’s all you talk about.”

Tali let out a mirthless laugh. “When she confessed her feelings, I almost fainted, Kasumi. For a while, I thought my dreams might be more than just childish fantasies” She sighed. “But then I researched human courtship, mating, and relationships.”

What was bothering her? Were humans and quarians not as compatible as she thought? If so, then…poor girl. Nobody deserved to have their hopes raised like that, only to watch them crumble to dust. Whatever the case, she’d lend Tali a shoulder to cry on.

She leaned forward, giving Tali strong eye contact. “Tali, do humans and quarians have…uhm…you know…” Pinching her right thumb and index finger together, she thrusted her left index finger in and out of the resulting hole. “Incompatible hardware?”

“What?” Tali asked, tilting her head. Tali paused, as if processing what she just heard. “Ohhh. Keelah, no, that’s not a problem. I’ve already researched everything related to that. With the right precautions, humans and quarians are more than capable of joining with each other, safely and comfortably. Our ‘hardware’ – as you put it – is compatible.”

“Then I don’t understand, Tali,” she said. “What’s bothering you so much?”

Tali looked away, breaking eye contact. “Human relationships,” she took a deep breath, “they horrify me.”

Kasumi’s jaw dropped. Her eyes went wide, and she covered her mouth with one hand. Horrified? What would Tali find so horrifying about human relationships?

Briefly, she thought of her parents, Tatsuo Goto, the CEO of Ariake Technologies, and Yuri Goto, a prominent philanthropist. Inwardly, she winced when she remembered their countless violent arguments, their mutual bouts of infidelity, and their long, nasty divorce that nearly bankrupt her father.

All they cared about was money, she thought bitterly, money and their damn careers.

For a while, they had her convinced that humans were incapable of being monogamous, that weakness and selfishness were ingrained into human nature.

Until she met Keiji.

“Please,” Tali said, “don’t feel as though I’m judging your species. It would be foolish of me to assume that humans think and behave anything like quarians. And Keelah, we are anything but perfect. It’s just…”

“It’s just what?”

Tali broke eye contact, took a deep breath, then met her gaze once more. “It’s just…no matter how hard I try, I can’t understand why most bonded human couples do such unspeakable things to each other.”

Unspeakable? Such a strong word. Just how different were quarian relationships from human ones?

“Like what?” she asked.

“Well, first, humans waste so much time and resources in these lavish, elaborate bonding ceremonies called Mayru’yez. They make them look like such celebrations, as though the couple’s bonding will last forever. But then something happens that I just can’t understand. After their ceremony, most human bonded couples – about fifty-percent of them according to your statistics – slowly become strangers or enemies, as though whatever love they shared just…fades away or devolves into hate. As it happens, they stop kissing, hugging, or joining. They stop sharing their innermost thoughts, and constantly betray and strike each other. In most cases, they then… ‘unbond’ in a terrible separation ritual called Dee’vorse.”

“Tali,” she said, “are there no words in Khelish for ‘marry’ and ‘divorce’? From the way you pronounced them, it sounds like–”

“I don’t understand these human words and concepts,” Tali said. “I don’t understand why more than half of human bonded couples are so horrible to each other, and why only a few behave like quarians. Nothing about human relationships makes sense. They are just so…so alien.”

“Tali, when two quarians ‘bond’, do they stay bonded for life?”

Tali sighed. “Yes. Quarians can only ‘fall in love’ – as you humans say – once.”

A lightbulb went off in her head.

Now, this all made sense.

Unlike humans, quarians truly pair-bonded for life. Likely, they never get bored of their partners, and were incapable of rationalizing human behaviors like infidelity, spousal abuse, and divorce. Poor girl. Likely, Tali was terrified that Shepard’s love for her would wither, then die, that one day Shepard would inexplicably abandon her for reasons her alien mind could not comprehend.

Kasumi’s heart melted. It took all her self control to not evelope her adorable, quarian friend in a big, fat hug. “Awww, that’s beautiful, Tali. I never would have guessed that quarians loved that deeply and powerfully…or that they could ‘bond’ with a human.”

Tali broke eye contact, as if ashamed. “I never thought…I never intended for this to happen. But after she held me in her arms when my father died, after she saved me from exile, then said she wanted me and nobody else, I couldn’t deny my feelings or resist her any longer. Keelah, now, I’m past the point of no return.”

She leaned forward and put her hand on Tali’s knee. “Have you told her?”

“No,” Tali said weakly. The way she said it broke Kasumi’s heart.

“Why?” Kasumi asked. “What are you afraid of?”

“She doesn’t realize the significance of what’s happened between us,” Tali said. “Despite all the conversations we’ve had on quarian culture, she still knows so little about my people. So what if…”

“What if what?”

Tali’s hands were trembling. She clenched her fists, then took a deep breath, giving her strong eye contact. “What if she doesn’t love me as much as I love her? What if she feels trapped, obligated to stay with me because of my boshtet needs.” Steadily, Tali’s voice was getting louder and more choked with emotion. “What if, one day, for reasons my stupid quarian brain just can’t understand, her bond to me starts withering, and I can’t do anything to stop it from dying, to save her from becoming some unrecognizable monster who will…who will…” She hugged herself, then sobbed.

Kasumi embraced Tali in a warm hug, and Tali clung to her with desperate tightness, sobbing and crying.

“I don’t want her to leave me, Kasumi,” Tali managed to say. “I don’t want to…to live the rest of my life alone,...always feeling incomplete…always feeling such longing in my heart after the Dee’Vorse ritual. Please…help me understand…help me understand why humans do this to each other. I…I can’t–”

“Sssh,” Kasumi said, “It’s okay. Just take deep breaths.” She took a deep breath. Somehow, she had to help Tali understand. The poor girl deserved to be happy. But damn it, how was she going to answer such a difficult question? “Deeep breaths.”

She held Tali in her arms, taking deep breaths with her, until eventually the quarian calmed down. She let go, then grabbed both of Tali’s shoulders, looking directly into her glowing eyes. “Tali, given all you’ve told me, it’s only natural that you’d have these concerns. But please, believe me when I say that you have nothing to be scared of. In fact, I think many humans would be jealous of your species.”

“What?” Tali almost shouted, her eyes wide. “Why would they be jealous?”

“Because to you,” Kasumi said, “soulmates are real, not just childish fantasies. Unlike us, you experience love and romance how we want them to be.” She cleared her throat. “Correct me if I’m wrong, but I bet quarian couples never betray each other’s trust, cause each other pain, or argue over small, stupid things. I bet they only give each other their undying, unwavering love, and never ask for anything in return. Most humans, Tali, would do anything to have that kind of relationship. But only very few human couples experience anything close to it.”

“Keelah…” Tali said, covering the mouth piece of her helmet. “But why?”

“Because unlike quarians couples,” Kasumi said, “human couples need to constantly nurture and maintain their bond to keep alive, Tali. If they don’t regularly share their feelings, and spend time with each other, that bond will decay…and eventually die.”

“Why wouldn’t they want to share their feelings, or spend time with each other?” Tali asked. “You make it sound like a chore.”

“I hate to say this, but…” Kasumi sighed, remembering her parents’ disastrous marriage, “many human couples are just incompatible. Often, their egos and personalities clash, and they won’t care about each other’s feelings, only their own.”

“How could two incompatible people ever form some kind of bond with each other?” Tali asked. She touched her visor with one hand. “Keelah, this is so confusing?”

“They often don’t,” Kasumi said, remembering her old friend, Yoshiko Hara, and her abusive boyfriend. Framing him as a pedophile had been almost too easy. “Unlike quarians, Tali, humans are extremely competitive with each other…especially when it comes to dating. Often, many people fall behind, and usually those people are so afraid of dying alone that they’ll date or marry almost anyone, even somebody who hurts them.”

“That’s crazy,” Tali said. “In the fleet, there’s no ‘competition’ when it comes to bonding. Most quarians eventually find their Saera. And even those few who don’t would never imagine trying to ‘force’ anything to happen.”

“That’s because your society doesn’t pressure your people into pairing up and making babies,” Kasumi said. “To you, bonding is all about love. It’s something that can only happen organically, and things like money and family politics don’t get in the way.”

“Why would those things matter?” Tali asked, tilting her head. “I don’t understand.”

Kasumi sighed. “One thing you need to understand, Tali, is that human marriage is nothing like quarian bonding. Long before we achieved spaceflight, marriage began as a practice human families used to combine resources and to form political alliances. Often, marriages had very little to do with love. Instead, they were business contracts, and love only made them easier to uphold.”

“I’m not sure I follow,” Tali said.

“Think of it this way,” Kasumi said. “First, imagine an old, ugly quarian man from another clan, who you just can’t stand.”

“Ok.”

“Now, imagine if you were forced to have his child, even though you were bonded to somebody else. Imagine if you had to live with him everyday, and deal with his problems, all because your ‘union’ brought your clans political and financial benefits they’ve deemed more important than your happiness.”

“Keelah!” Tali said. “That sounds like a nightmare!”

“For many humans, even today, “ Kasumi said, “it is. And countless people endure that nightmare because there’s no escape, no alternative.”

“And what about the human couples that are compatible?” Tali asked. “Are their relationships better?”

Kasumi sighed, remembering her first boyfriend, Yosuke Hada. After he started drinking, their relationship went downhill, then died when she caught him cheating on her with some Asari slut. “It’s sad, but even when couples start out as compatible, they might change and become incompatible. After all, nothing is static. Everything is in constant flux, and most humans, Tali, are just too weak, too selfish, or too lazy to adapt. They always trade what they want most, for what they want in the present moment, and always do what’s easy, instead of what’s right.”

“Jane is not weak, selfish, or lazy,” Tali said. “Since the day I met her, she has only given me everything. Keelah, she never thinks about herself. She never takes what she wants, and always does what is right – never what is easy.”

“And that,” she said, “is why she will never betray or feel trapped with you. She is anything but the average human woman, and would die for you, Tali. She loves you just as much as you love her. And you want to know why?”

“Why?”

“I was on this ship, long before you ever came aboard,” she said. “In that time, I’ve watched and observed everyone very closely. And you want to know what I’ve noticed?”

“What?”

“Before you came aboard, Shep was miserable. For us, she kept pretending that everything was fine. But I could see behind her mask. She was dying on the inside, Tali – holding in so much pain and rage.” She sighed. “To be honest, I was worried about her. One day, I knew she’d snap, and either lash out or shatter to pieces.”

“Keelah,” Tali said, covering her mouthpiece with one hand, “I…I didn’t know. She seemed fine in all the messages we sent each other.”

“Yeah,” Kasumi said, “she was in a bad place. She was constantly drowning her pain in work, by being hyper-focused on the mission. In her cabin, she’d sometimes go on these long, angry rants, where she’d smash things against the walls. But then we heard about Haestrom.” She leaned forward, giving Tali intense eye contact. “You should have seen her, Tali. I’ve never seen anyone so determined, so driven to achieve something in my entire life. She made Miranda lose her cool in this massive argument on whether to come save you. And…oooh, you should have seen how she put Miranda in her place. It was glorious!”

“What happened when you got to Haestrom?”

Kasumi burst out laughing. “Oh, I felt so sorry for the poor geth in her way. She made Jack and Grunt look timid when she rushed on ahead by herself, tearing them to pieces with her biotics. Nothing would have stopped her, Tali. Nothing. Not even a whole army of geth. She was like a force of nature.”

Tali looked speechless. The quarian was probably blushing behind her mask.

“You’re a very lucky girl, you know that?” Kasumi said. “Most women on this ship are kind of jealous of you. Do you realize how few women are willing to do that for the woman they love?” She giggled. “If only you could have seen the way she carried you in her arms the whole way back to the ship, how she refused to leave your side until you woke up. Oh, it was so romantic, like something straight out of a vid.”

“She really did that for me?”

“Yes!” Kasumi said. “And that’s not all. Before you came aboard, she never even glanced at any woman – not even Miss Perfect Genes. But after you came aboard, she could hardly take her eyes off you. Finally, she started to smile and laugh and be friendlier with the crew. And now, she’s the happiest I’ve ever seen her.” She grabbed Tali’s shoulders, looking deeply into her eyes. “You complete her, Tali. You’ve pieced her broken mind back together. And as long as you never change, as long as you always give her your undying, unwavering love, you have nothing to be afraid of. Her love for you will never fade.”

Tali was speechless. She broke eye contact and looked as though she was processing all she heard.

“I…I need some time to think about what you’ve told me,” Tali said eventually. “Keelah, you humans are more complicated than I thought. I still have so much to learn…but thank you.” Tali gave her a warm hug. “As you humans would say, you’ve ‘opened my eyes’.”

“Are you going to tell her?” Kasumi asked, as Tali let go.

“I won’t lie,” Tali said, wringing her hands, “I’m still nervous about it. A part of me is still screaming that a human-quarian couple just can’t work, that our species are just too different, and that Jane would be happier with somebody else. But…But I’m going to ignore it. When the time is right, I’ll tell her everything.”

Kasumi giggled. “Now, that’s the spirit. “

Tali stood up from the couch. “Well, I better get back to engineering.” She took a deep breath. “Somehow, I’ll have to repay you for this.”

“You can repay me by seizing this opportunity life has given you,” Kasumi said, standing up from the couch. She put her hand on Tali’s shoulder. “Go get her, sister, and don’t ever look back. You deserve a woman like her.”

“Don’t worry,” Tali said. “I…I won’t let you down.”

“I know you won’t,” Kasumi said. “I believe in you.”

Once more, Tali hugged her. “Thank you.”

“Take care,” Kasumi said, as Tali let go.

“See you later,” Tali said before she left the port observation deck.

When the door closed behind her quarian friend, Kasumi smiled. Keiji may be gone. She may never feel the bliss she’d experienced with him ever again. But there was still hope for Tali.

No matter what, she’d be there whenever she needed guidance.
