Prologue 3: Until The Very End

“Shepard, that console has not been fully scrubbed. It contains data you might find…interesting.”

On Chronos Station, Commander Shepard looked at the console before her. Around her, alarms blared. Gunfire roared from distant hallways, choked with smoke and charred consoles, as squads of other N7s and Alliance Marines battled Cerberus forces. And periodically, the deck quaked under the attack runs of friendly starfighters, crippling strategic areas of the station.

Finally, Cerberus was finished.

And it was only a matter of time before she recovered the Catalyst and ended the Reaper War once and for all.

“What am I looking at?” she asked.

“Data on Project Lazarus…” EDI said, still trying to unlock the door before her, “on your reconstruction.”

She froze. Her heart pounded, and ice ran through her veins. And her mind reeled with memories of when she had come back from the dead, only to find herself in a galaxy in which all her efforts had been scrubbed away. She swallowed hard. Closing her eyes, she took a deep breath.

Hold it together now. A part of her wanted to run from whatever secrets that console contained, to leave the past in the past. But another wanted closure — answers to questions that still haunted the deepest, darkest parts of her mind.

Suddenly, the gentle touch of her lifemate snapped her out of her reverie. “Jane…”

“I…I’m okay, Tali,” she said, looking into Tali’s radiant eyes. Like always, her presence never failed to ground Shepard, to fill her heart with a soothing, empowering sensation that gave her the strength to endure anything.

“I know how much this still weighs on you,” Tali said, gently stroking Shepard’s arm. “But ultimately, this is your decision. Whatever you decide, I am here for you.”

Once more, she faced the console. No more running. With as much resolve as she could muster, she opened up her omni-tool and input a few commands, playing the video log the console contained. On it, a scientist was talking to a hologram of the Illusive Man.

“It can’t be done,” the scientist said, “it’s not a matter of resources.”

“It’s always a matter of resources,” the Illusive Man replied, clasping his hands behind his back, “We are not losing Shepard.”

The scientist sighed. “Sir, Shepard is clinically brain dead. After that much trauma, that long without oxygen, we can not overcome nature.”

The Illusive Man grinned. “Operative Lawson disagrees. She is now in charge of Project Lazarus.”

The video log closed. And she froze in place, staring at the deck. A sickening sensation gripped her insides. She balled her fists. When Liara had brought her body to Cerberus, had she been only a charred lump of flesh? Was she still herself? Or was she simply a reanimated…thing, a puppet of flesh and cybernetics with the original Jane Shepard’s memories?

She let out a heavy sigh. What am I?

Once more, her lifemate’s touch brought her back to reality. She looked into Tali’s eyes, and they radiated such incredible love and concern. “Talk to me…”

“I never realized that it was that bad,” she said, her eyes welling with tears. A crushing sensation gripped her chest. “I know I still must be me, where it counts. I never could have turned against Cerberus otherwise. So I guess…” She gritted her teeth, then huffed through her nose. “I guess it doesn’t matter what they did, if they just fixed me, or if I’m just some…puppet, or advanced VI that thinks it’s me. But I…I don’t know…”

Without warning, her lifemate gripped Shepard’s head, then pressed her visor against Shepard’s. “You are real and you are mine. No matter the truth, I love you just the way you are. Never forget that.”

Tears rolled down her cheeks. The words were like a soothing balm, and even now, she couldn’t help but be in awe of how safe Tali made her feel to be herself. “Thank you, saera. I love you too. Now…let’s finish this.”

Reluctantly, Tali pulled away, then nodded. “I’m with you until the very end.”

Finally, EDI unlocked the door, and Shepard stepped through, only to find herself in a practical warzone. The once orderly chamber now teemed with flaming consoles, twisted metal, countless omni-barriers, as well as numerous crates and walls, charred black by the surrounding mayhem. The stench of ozone seeped through the grille of her helmet, and the roar of weapons fire echoed off the walls.

Amidst the chaos, Alliance and Cerberus were shouting commands over the deafening noise.

Without hesitation, she leapt into the fray. And she, Tali, and EDI took cover alongside a squad of N7s.

“Well, well, well. If it isn’t the Lion of Elysium,” one of the N7s said, “about time you joined us. We’re facing quite the situation here.”

“They’ve got us pinned down with those damned turrets,” another said, “and we’ve got no way to flank them.”

Briefly, she peeked from behind cover, and indeed, Cerberus troopers were dug in, their position fortified with two turrets laying down an overlapping field of suppressing fire.

“I know just what to do,” she said. She glanced at her lifemate. Yes, undoubtedly, Tali could do what Shepard had planned. She’d done this countless times before. “Tali, can you alter those turrets’ friend-foe protocols?”

Tali opened up her omni-tool, and then input a few commands. “Child’s play. But only for a few seconds.”

Shepard grinned beneath her helmet. That’s my girl. “A few seconds is all we’ll need. When those turrets turn on the enemy, I need you to lay down as much covering fire as possible.”

The squad leader nodded. “You got it.”

As Tali did her magic, adrenaline surged through Shepard’s veins. And one of her implants supercharged her focus.

“Ok…” Tali said, inputting a few commands. “NOW!”

The moment she said that the turrets turned on their former allies, shredding numerous Cerberus troops to scraps of meat, bone, and armor. The squad of N7s unleashed a torrent of covering fire that forced the enemy into cover.

And then Shepard seized the moment.

Tapping into her biotics, she surged forward out of cover, at blistering speed with a biotic charge, then tore the two turrets asunder with crushing mass effect fields.

A few Cerberus troopers peeked out of cover.

Yet before they could react, she drew her Carnifex and fired three times. Each blew the brains out of a Cerberus trooper, bursting their heads like ripe melons.

Another trooper returned fire, but she only absorbed his shots with a biotic shield. She hurled a singularity toward the enemy’s position. And the second it tore several troopers out of cover, Tali and EDI gunned them down with ruthless efficiency, bursting their shields, shredding them to gory messes within seconds.

Without warning, another trooper emerged from cover then slashed out with his omni-blade. Without hesitation, she dodged. But nonetheless, the strike went straight through her shield and left a nasty scratch across her T5V Battlesuit.

“Traitor!” the trooper screamed, his voice practically frothing with hate and acid.

She weaved through the trooper’s next strike, drew her omni-blade, then countered the next, ramming it straight through the Cerberus trooper’s gut. The trooper gasped, then gurgled and went limp in her grasp.

And for a moment, her mind raged and buckled the same way it did every time she killed another human being. Up this close and personal, it never got easier. Such kills always cursed her with nightmares she’d live with until the end of her days.

But what choice did have?

The moment she pulled her omni-blade, the trooper’s corpse hit the deck with a loud thud.

“Let’s move!” she commanded.

And then Tali, EDI, and the squad of N7s emerged from cover. The squad leader chuckled. “You are every bit the legend they say, Commander.”

“We’ll handle things here,” another said. “Get your ass to TIM’s control room.”

She saluted. “My pleasure, gentlemen.”

And then she pushed on, with Tali and EDI beside her. After passing through more halls and several abandoned medical facilities, they soon came upon another locked door before them.

“I’ll handle the security lock,” EDI said, “cover me.”

“Will do,” Shepard said, aiming her weapon down the adjacent corridor, where Cerberus troopers were most likely to pass through.

Her lifemate did the same. “You got it.”

As she waited for EDI to unlock the door for what felt like hours, she glanced at Tali. Tali looked back at her. And she did not need to speak for Shepard to understand what she was telling her.

In combat, there was nobody she would rather die beside. Nobody she’d want beside her enduring whatever was to come.

Suddenly, a notification popped on her helmet’s HUD — an incoming comm request from Admiral Hackett. She answered it.

“Shepard…” Hackett said. “Give me an update. Where are you?”

“We’re coming up on the control room, now,” she said. With her omni-tool, she brought up a holo map of the station, vital intelligence Miranda had given Alliance command in preparation for this mission. “Just have to fight through one last section.”

“Give them hell,” Hackett said. “Signing off.”

“That’s the least I’ll do, sir,” she said. “Godspeed.”

“Godspeed.”

Admiral Hackett cut the comm link. And a few seconds later, EDI finally unlocked the door.

“Let’s keep moving,” she said, “there’s no time to waste.”

They pushed onward through more abandoned hallways before eventually they came upon a shortcut — a hole in the deck. She jumped down, with Tali and EDI following her lead.

But soon, she stopped in her tracks, her eyes wide, her jaw slack at the sight before her. No…

“Jane,” Tali said. “What is it? Oh…”

Before them loomed a marvel of Reaper technology, a colossal cable stretching up into the sky like an ominous serpent. It led to a heart-shaped device, pulsating with an eerie, otherworldly energy and connected to numerous branching cables. A faint scent of rotting flesh saturated the room. The sight left a sickening sensation in her stomach.

She balled her fists. No matter what, they could not allow this technology to exist once the war was over. Some things were better off left buried and unknown.

“EDI,” she said, as they pressed on. “What is that?”

“It is the heart of the human Reaper you faced on the Collector Base,” EDI said. “From my scans, it seems they are using it as a power source.”

As they climbed several sets of stairs, her mind went back to that awful, awful mission. She would never forget the horrors she had witnessed there, from the pods melting countless colonists to goo, to the nightmarish buzzing of the seeker swarms, and to the greatest abomination she had ever seen.

The Human Reaper.

“Jane?” Tali asked. “Are you okay?”

“I’m fine, Tali,” Shepard said, “It’s just…”

“The Collector Base still haunts you?”

Briefly, her mind went back to the moment she had nearly lost the love of her life, to when Tali had slid down that platform and had almost fallen into the abyss below.

“It will always haunt me,” she said, “especially how I almost lost you. Hands down, that was the scariest moment of my life.”

“Jane…” she said, “if we survive this war, then by the ancestors I will do everything to ensure you never feel that way again.” Momentarily, she glanced at the Reaper Heart. “But one thing is certain. For that to happen, we can not allow technology like that…thing to exist.”

Shepard smiled. And a sublime sensation eased the All her life, she had endured tragedy after tragedy, set back after set back. But damn it, if there was anything that brought her such consistent peace and joy, it was her lifemate. I’m the luckiest woman in the galaxy. “I couldn’t agree more.”

Soon, they climbed up a ladder, leading to a walkway. Once more, she drew her M-76 Revenant, ready to fire upon any enemy that might cross their path. But then…

Crack-boom!

The shot burst her shields, and a red alert blared on her HUD. “Get to cover!”

At her command, Tali and EDI dived into cover behind some nearby barriers. And Shepard did the same. The moment her shields recharged, she switched her helmet’s vision mode to thermal, only to spot a Cerberus Phantom lying prone upon a platform past the end of the walkway, ready to blow Shepard’s head off with her sniper rifle.

At the same time, two Cerberus troopers in black armor jumped up onto the walkway with their rocket boots, then opened fire.

“Come out, come out, traitor,” one taunted.

“We promise we’ll make it quick,” the other said.

They unleashed a hail of bullets that pinned them behind cover. Damn it, what was she supposed to do? She needed a plan. But what?

“Jane, I’ll distract the sniper with Chikita,” Tali said. “In the meantime, use your fre’eg biotics to catch them off guard.”

“And I will lay down suppressing fire,” EDI said, “keep her pinned while you engage the troopers.”

“Do it!” Shepard ordered.

Without hesitation, Tali sent out several omni-drones toward the sniper’s position. Once more, Shepard tapped into her biotics, then dived out of cover, absorbing a hail of incoming fire with a biotic shield before returning fire herself.

Her M76-Revenant spat a storm of mass accelerator rounds that tore through their shields. But then the two troopers tapped into their biotics and absorbed her incoming fire.

What the hell?

She and EDI kept firing, but then the two troopers drew their omni-blades, then surged toward them with a biotic charge. Without hesitation, Shepard countered with a biotic blast that sent them flying a few feet away onto their backs, and she surged forward herself, holstering her Revenant and drawing her omni-blade.

A thunderous boom erupted from the sniper’s position, distracting her momentarily. But that only gave the troopers the opening they needed.

They rushed at her with their omni-blades. And her omni-blade clashed with theirs in a flurry of sparks. Parrying one blow after the other, her cybernetically enhanced reflexes kicked into overdrive.

Each of their strikes carried immense speed and power, bolstered by biotics and cybernetics. And she found herself on the defensive, struggling to hold them back.

Damn it, she needed an opening now!

A slash slipped through her guard, carving straight through her armor and into her flesh. Searing pain ripped through her insides, and she gritted her teeth.

But she did not falter.

With a mighty roar, she blocked the next strike, then slammed her fist into one trooper’s face with a biotic punch that shattered his helmet and squashed his skull, spraying out a mess of blood, brains, and skull fragments.

She grabbed the trooper's corpse, then hurled it off the walkway. But then the remaining trooper tackled her to the ground. Amidst the chaos, Tali and EDI kept firing, pinning the sniper behind cover, as Shepard wrestled with the trooper on the ground.

Gritting her teeth, she battled against the trooper's immense strength and endurance, easily matching that of a krogan. As they exchanged blows, her head rattled inside her helmet, making stars explode across her vision. Desperately, she kept reaching for her Carnifex, but her opponent thwarted her at every turn.

Once more, the trooper drew his omni-blade, then thrust it toward her face. But then she blocked the blow with both her vambraces, keeping the omni-blade’s tip at bay.

The trooper glared at her with fathomless hate and put his body weight into pushing the omni-blade toward her throat.

“This is the end, Janey girl,” the trooper said. The trooper chuckled. “Once you’re dead, my men and I are going to enjoy carving up that suit rat whore of yours.”

Tapping into her biotics, she poured every ounce of her biotically and cybernetically enhanced strength into keeping the omni-blade at bay. Soon, her breath went ragged. Her vision darkened, and slowly, her strength was fading. NO! She would not die today!

She roared in defiance.

SHE WOULD NOT DIE TODAY!

“Jane!” Tali shouted with desperate urgency.

With her shotgun, Tali opened fire at the trooper, and mass accelerated slugs ripped through his shields and the trooper reeled aside.

Without hesitation, she seized the opening.

She drew her Carnifex, then emptied an entire thermal clip into the trooper’s skull, splattering the deck and nearby walls with blood and gray matter.

“Shepard!” EDI shouted. “The sniper!”

Still, EDI was laying down suppressing fire, keeping the sniper pinned. It was time to finish this.

Tapping into her biotics, Shepard unleashed a biotic flare at the sniper’s position. But then her sniper rifle boomed once more, just as the biotic blast blew her to pieces.

Her shot punched straight through Shepard’s shields, and through her armor, only to graze her shoulder. White-hot pain exploded there, and grunted, clenching her teeth.

Panting, she took a moment to regain her bearings. But then her nose bled. And the wound to her stomach assaulted her with searing, white-hot pain. Fatigue swept through her muscles, and she fell to one knee.

“Fuck…” she muttered under her breath. This always happened when she pushed herself too hard with her biotics. Even with her L5n implants, she had to be mindful of her limits.

I can’t die yet. For a moment, Tali’s maskless face flashed in her mind. No. Not yet.

“Jane!” Tali shouted, bolting toward her. “Jane!”

She knelt beside Shepard. “Oh, Keelah, no, no, no,” she said, inspecting Shepard’s wounds. She opened up her omni-tool, then frantically input a series of commands. “Here, take my medi-gel.”

“Tali…” Shepard said, her breathing ragged, “wait—”

Before she could say more, a freezing sensation swept through her shoulder and stomach, and she closed her eyes, clenching her jaw, grunting through the icy pain.

Soon, she opened her eyes, only to see her lifemate’s radiant eyes staring into hers. Tali gripped Shepard’s head. “Jane? Jane, are you okay?”

“Yeah,” she managed to say, as Tali tried to help her up. But even with it, it was as though her fatigue was pressing her back down to the deck. Once more, she fell to one knee. “Just give me a moment.”

“We don’t have a moment!” Tali snapped. She pressed her visor to Shepard’s in a quarian kiss. Her voice began to shake. “Whatever you are feeling now, I need you to stand. This fight is not over. The galaxy is depending on the Lion of Elysium right now. And most importantly…” She gripped Shepard’s head a little tighter. “I need you.”

Those words ignited a fire within her. Tapping into the same inner strength that had gotten her through the death of her family, through the Battle of Elysium, and beyond, she balled her fists. And her limbs flooded with energy.

Her lifemate was right. Now, was not the time to rest. Tali needed her. She needed the Lion of Elysium!

And Shepard would not fail her!

Gritting her teeth, she stood up, and then drew her Revenant. I will not die today. “Let’s keep moving. The control room is just ahead.”

They pressed on through a final set of stairs and an abandoned facility. And soon, they came upon a massive blast door. After stepping through the narrow walkway within, they emerged through another blast door, only to find themselves in the central control room.

It was a sprawling chamber of glossy tiles as dark as the void of space. Outside the viewport ahead, the Alliance 5th fleet continued to gut what remained of Cerberus’ naval forces, with starfighter wings hunting down their enemy counterparts, with Alliance frigates and destroyers raking enemy ships with storms of missiles and torpedos. At the center of the control room, sat a single chair with a large omni display before it.

“Tali,” she said, “cover the entrance. EDI, come help me find the Prothean VI.”

“You got it,” Tali said.

EDI nodded. “Affirmative.”

She sat in the Illusive Man’s chair, then booted up the haptic display before her. Yet before she could query the file system, the familiar crack-shwoom of a hologram broke the silence.

“Shepard…” The Illusive Man said, “You are in my chair.”

Instinctively, she drew her Carnifex, then whirled around and faced Jack Harper’s hologram, aiming her weapon right at him. “It’s over, Jack. Cerberus is done for.”

The Illusive Man took a puff of his e-cigar, then looked at her like a father about to scold his rebellious child. “No, Shepard. On the contrary, this is only the beginning. I’ve accomplished everything I have ever imagined.” The Illusive Man glanced at EDI, and his bionic eyes carried immense disappointment like EDI was a favorite toy that hadn’t done what he’d hoped. “Well…almost everything.”

Tightening the grip on her Carnifex, she scowled but quickly reigned in her anger. No. Hostility would get her nowhere. She had to try a different approach. “You mean what you did on Sanctuary? It won’t work, Jack. If you seriously believe otherwise, then I don’t know what to say to you.”

Jack gave her a condescending smile. “Sanctuary served its purpose. Thanks to the Prothean VI, I already have everything I need.”

“The Catalyst?”

The Illusive Man nodded.

A heavy silence descended between them. During it, she looked at the deck. Are we already too late? No. Not if she was fast. Not if she had one ounce of fight still within her. Once more, she met the Illusive Man’s gaze. “After everything you’ve done, after all the bodies you’ve left in your wake, what makes you think humanity wants a god like you? I think we’d all be better off losing this damned war.”

Momentarily, the Illusive Man scowled. “Think what you want about me. But everything I have ever done has uplifted humanity. Not just beyond the other species in our galaxy. But over the Reapers themselves.”

“If you’re so willing to cross any line,” she continued, “then help me. With the Catalyst, we can end this once and for all. We can save Earth. We can save humanity.”

The Illusive Man sighed. “It is not that simple.”

“It is!” she snapped. “This entire war, we’ve been fighting each other while the Reapers laid waste to Earth. We could have won a long time ago. It’s time to stop!”

"I’ve always admired your idealism, how you stand by what you believe no matter the circumstances,” the Illusive Man said, with a hint of disappointment in his voice. “But in the end, I suppose our goals are just too disparate.” The Illusive Man gave her a steely gaze. “Destroying the Reapers would only rob humanity of its destiny, Shepard. And there is nothing you can say or do that will convince me otherwise.”

Another silence descended, and it stretched on and on for what felt like hours.

She sighed. “I don’t know what to say to you. You have nothing left, yet still you’re clinging to your fantasy, to your damned utopia.”

“I expected you to say that,” the Illusive Man said. Jack sighed. “You never believed in us. But no matter. The Alliance can take this station. They can arrest or execute every member of this organization. Yet in the end, it will all be for nothing. My ideas will live on.”

She frowned. Damn it, they didn’t have time for this. She looked at EDI. “EDI, have you found it yet?”

“I’ve almost got it.”

“EDI…” Jack said, “I am very disappointed in you. You know full well what destroying the Reapers will entail, and yet here you are, trying to bring about their destruction anyway.”

“Don’t listen to him,” she snapped. “Keep looking.”

“You could have destroyed EVA’s body,” Jack continued, “and you chose to control it.”

“It was necessary,” EDI replied.

Jack grinned. “My point exactly.”

“You might be so smug and sure of yourself now,” Tali interjected, “but just remember — my people fully believed they could control the Geth, that doing so would ascend them to heights never seen before. And yet…how did that turn out again?”

The Illusive Man glared at Tali, as though she was subhuman, as though she was a rabid Varren barking at him. No doubt, everything she just said went in through one ear and out the other.

But Shepard couldn’t help but admire the sheer truth behind what she said. She smiled. You just never cease to amaze me.

“I’ve got it,” EDI said.

A green, flickering hologram of a Prothean came to life before Shepard.

“Online, security breach detected,” the VI said.

Jack sighed. “Enjoy your little chat. But don’t overstay your welcome.” The Illusive Man’s hologram turned then winked out of existence, leaving them all in silence.

“You are attempting to recover me from indoctrinated forces?” the VI asked.

“Yes,” she said, her voice sharp. Damn it, time was short. As soon as she got what she needed, she had to get back to the Normandy ASAP. “I need to know what the Catalyst is.”

“Security protocols have been overridden,” the VI continued, “I will comply. The Catalyst enhances dark-energy transmissions and coordinates the entire Mass Relay network. In your cycle, it is known as the Citadel.”

The Citadel? She froze. Her jaw went slack and her eyes wide. All this time, the Catalyst had been in plain sight? If only she had known sooner!

Perhaps billions of lives could have been spared.

“Keelah…” Tali said. “So the Crucible and the Citadel are meant to go together?”

“That is accurate,” the VI said.

“Then there’s no time to waste,” Shepard said, heading for the exit, “the Crucible is ready. The longer we stay here the more we give the Reapers a head start.”

“That will not be possible,” the VI said.

She stopped in her tracks, then looked back at the VI. “Why?”

“It is already too late,” the VI said. “The one you call the Illusive Man has already fled to the Citadel and has informed the Reapers of your plans.”

“What?!” she shouted. Her heart thrashed in her chest, and ice rushed through her veins. No, no, no. Were they already too late?

“Jane, we have to go now,” Tali said firmly. “The Citadel is in danger. We have to tell Admiral Hackett. We have to—”

“The Reapers have already taken the Citadel and moved it to the center of their operations,” the VI continued, “to the system you refer to as Sol.”

She looked at EDI. “EDI, get me Hackett. We have to—”

“Jane!” Tali shouted. She fired her shotgun, and a loud bang split the air.

Shepard whirled, yet before she could see what Tali was shooting at. A biotic blast burst her shields and sent her flying through the air. She hit the ground with a loud thud, and red alerts blared on her HUD.

Finally, she spotted Tali shooting at the Illusive Man’s attack dog, Kai’Leng.

A surge of raw, primal energy surged through her, igniting every nerve and cell in her body. Pushing herself to her feet, she drew her Revenant and unleashed a torrent of mass accelerator rounds at Kai’Leng’s shields and biotic barrier, making them flare and ripple. EDI did the same, making them nearly burst.

But then Kai’Leng moved with lightning speed, slapping Tali’s shotgun out of her hands and pulling her into a deadly hostage hold.

With a savage, deranged glee in his eyes, Kai’Leng grinned and aimed the blaster on his palm at Tali’s head. “Shepard. So good to see you again. I saw what you did to my two best proteges not too far away from here, and I have to say…thank you. They softened you up juust enough for the fun we’re about to have.”

Briefly, she met Tali’s gaze, and in her eyes, Shepard found not an ounce of fear.

Only the unwavering faith that she would figure a way out of this mess. But what could she possibly do? Just then, an idea came to her. From what Anderson had told her, Kai’Leng had a massive ego. Perhaps she could leverage that? Let’s hope this works.

“Look at you,” she said, with a smirk and a tilt of the head, “so desperate to get my attention. What’s the matter? Can't stand that the Illusive Man sees more potential in me, than he ever saw in his damned attack dog?”

Kai’Leng's scowled. His eyes turned into burning slits, and his voice practically dripped with acid and burned with white-hot hate. “Jealous? Of you? A degenerate who would fuck this suit-rat whore? A weak, pathetic little woman who would betray humanity — her own species — all because you just can’t stomach our methods? You disgust me, Shepard! I have no idea what Jack, the Alliance, or anyone ever saw in you. Burying your legend is going to be the greatest thing I ever do.”

Kai’Leng’s words made her stomach churn. She tightened her grip on her weapon and battled the temptation to just open fire and hope she wouldn’t hit Tali as well.

I’ll kill you for this. Yes, nobody would get away with threatening her beloved’s life and calling her a suit-rat whore. But for now, she had to remain calm. She huffed through her nose, gripping her Revenant a little lighter. Yes, she would not give the Illusive Man’s attack dog what he was so desperate for.

An emotional reaction.

She laughed. “You talk a big game. But let’s face it. You’re my number one fan.”

“Shut up!” Kai’Leng shouted, gripping Tali a little tighter, but aiming his palm blaster at Shepard.

“If you’re the best the Illusive Man had to offer, then I'm disappointed,” she continued. She smiled, as Kai’Leng shook with rage “You don’t even have the balls to fight me, face to face. Instead, you chose to hide behind your proteges, and now—”

“I SAID SHUT UP!” Kai’Leng roared. “SHUT—”

Without warning, Tali slipped from Kai’Leng’s grasp, then dived out of his line of fire. “Jane now!”

Shepard and EDI opened fire. Once more, a storm of mass accelerator rounds tore through Kai’Lengs shields and slammed into his biotic barrier, making it flare and ripple. With a primal howl, Kai’Leng charged at blistering speed and slashed out with his sword.

She blocked the first few slashes with her Revenant, and sparks flew through the air with every impact.

“You’re dead!” Kai’Leng shouted, attacking with animal fury bordering complete madness. “Dead! Dead! Dead!”

She stumbled back, her bones rattling under the sheer impact of every blow. Damn it, how long could she keep this up? She needed to put Kai on this defensive.

NOW!

Kai’Leng slashed out once more and sliced clean through her Revenant. The Illusive Man’s attack dog followed up the strike with a biotic blast that sent her flying backward.

But this time she was prepared.

The moment she hit the ground, she rolled backward, onto her feet, then drew her omni-blade and surged toward Kai’Leng with a biotic charge.

Kai’Leng did the same, and then their blades clashed with a resounding clang and shower of sparks. As their blades were crossed, they glared at each other.

“Going to bash her visor in, Shepard!” Kai’Leng spat, practically frothing at the mouth. “Make her choke on my sword until she’s coughing up her own insides!”

Briefly, she imagined Tali meeting such a fate. And an emotional supernova erupted within her, flooding her limbs with primal, untapped fury, turning all she saw red. “I have had ENOUGH of your bullshit!”

She shoved Kai’Leng back with a biotic blast, then slashed out with her omni-blade, putting Kai’Leng on the defensive.

Kai’Leng burst into manic laughter. “There it is! There it is! Come on!”

Their blades clashed in a chaotic dance, with a cacophony of clangs, and sparks flying all around. With each passing second, her heart pounded harder and harder, the blood rushing through her veins like a roaring river. Her eyesight blurred as the red haze of anger clouded her vision.

And soon, the smug satisfaction on Kai’Leng’s face vanished, only to be replaced by a growing terror.

“Hey, bosh’tet!” Tali shouted. “Choke on this.”

Without warning, Kai’Leng’s arms locked up, mid-swing. “No, no, no! You bitch!”

Without hesitation, she slashed out with her omni-blade, lobbing off Kai’Leng’s wrists. Before Kai’s sword even hit the ground, she slammed her armored boot into her opponent’s chest, sending the Cerberus agent flying backward, until he hit the ground with a thud.The moment Kai’Leng hit the ground, she surged forward, then mounted him, choking her opponent with one hand.

Her mind went back to when Kai’Leng had rammed his sword through Thane’s gut. “This is for Thane!” She rocketed her fist into Kai’Leng’s face, pulverizing bone with a wet crack.

“This!” She slammed her fist once more into Kai’Leng’s face, shattering his jaw, knocking out a few teeth. Squirming beneath her, Kai’Leng gurgled. “Is for threatening my lifemate!”

“And this!” Again, she cannoned her fist into Kai’Leng’s face, brutalizing it upon impact. Finally, Kai’Leng dropped all bravado and began to whimper. “Is for every life you and Cerberus have ever destroyed!”

Roaring with primal fury, she unleashed all her bent-up bloodlust, pounding Kai’Leng again and again, until his face was nothing more than a bloody pulp, until it was nothing more than an unrecognizable mess of blood, brains, and skull fragments. Long after Kai breathed his last, she kept hitting him, splattering her armor with his blood, howling and howling until—

“Jane!” Tali shouted. “Jane! Enough!” She rushed to Shepard’s side and grabbed her shoulder, pulling her off of Kai’Leng. “Jane, enough…he’s dead. He’s dead. It’s over.”

Panting, she finally stopped, only to face the mess she had created — Kai’Leng’s brutalized head, a pulverized mess of blood, bone, and brains. What have I done? A cold, emptiness racked her chest. And for a moment, she could hardly move.

She had lost control.

Yes, Kai’Leng had unchained a part of herself she never knew she existed. Her eyes welled with tears. And now, all she wanted was to bury it once again.

Tears rolled down her cheeks. “What have I done, Tali?”

Tali pulled her into a warm, tight hug, and Shepard clung to her, allowing herself to weep. Soon, Tali gripped Shepard’s head, then pressed their visors together in a quarian kiss. “You are not a monster, saera. You did absolutely nothing wrong.”

“But-But, I…” she managed to say.

But then Tali cut her off. “Ssshhh. You were only trying to protect me, just like how any lifemate should. If anyone threatened you like how that bosh’tet threatened me, I would have done much, much worse.”

She took a deep breath, and her muscles relaxed. Her mind stilled, and once again, As always, Tali’s words were like a healing balm, but nonetheless, she could not lose control like that ever again.

Staring into Tali’s eyes, she held her a little tighter. “Thank you. I love you, Tali. More than I could ever put into words.”

Tali let out a joyful laugh. “I know. Now, come on.” She helped Shepard to her feet. “Let’s get out of here.”

Briefly, she looked at her mess once again. Burn in hell you rotten piece of shit. She exhaled, then met Tali’s gaze and nodded. “Let’s get out of here.”

Indeed, it was time to end this war once and for all.
