First Contact

It was a strange thing, the differences between species. Looking at a turian and a krogan, it was obvious. The two could not be more different from each other. There were some similarities, both stood upright and were tetrapods, with two arms and two legs. Both were social animals, with family structures and a capacity for empathy. But it was hard to look past the spiny carapace of a turian, or the enormous size and plates of a krogan. One couldn’t even eat the other’s food.

But other species, the differences were almost invisible. Asari and humans could’ve been related at a glance. If not for the blue, scaled skin and scalp crests, they were nearly identical. They could share the same food, the same clothes. They could… share a kiss.

Tali shifted a little in Jane’s desk chair. It was comfortable enough, but the accommodations for a human behind were just slightly off from her own. She leaned forward, tapping the metal desk top with a gloved finger. The sound of rushing water was at her back, almost imperceptible beyond the bathroom door. But her helmet’s audio sensors could pick it up. She glanced around the room, taking in the modifications she’d made.

Airtight panelling covering every gap, fans to circulate the air and filtered air vents: Tiresome, but worth it. After passing through the elevator partition, and being swept over by the decontamination unit, things were as clean as they were going to get. Reacting to an unsaid command, her helmet scanned the surrounding atmosphere. It sent back an amber warning; trace microbial contamination detected. Blinking her HUD away, she sighed. It would never be perfect.

The differences between species… this whole room was a testament to that.

Her vision free of scan updates and drive core data, Tali focused instead on the glass cabinet in front of her. Inside were a handful of the model ships she’d built with Jane. “Therapeutic” had been the word she’d used. Keelah, watching her fumble with these things had nearly driven the poor woman to tear the hood from her helmet. But looking at them now, shining and silver, she couldn’t help but smile. There were more spaces left to fill, though tonight she admired the old Normandy, sitting above the SR-2 in miniature.

While not as technically impressive as her new home, something about the old ship tugged at her heart. Despite the drab colours and the near silence, it had felt cosy: A small sliver of warmth in a cold galaxy. She remembered every face she’d seen aboard, even if she never knew all their names. She remembered Adams’ laugh when they were waist-deep in repairs. She remembered long dinners spent listening to Ashley’s stories of home, and her many, many sisters.

She squeezed her hands together. After Virmire, Ash’s absence had been impossible to escape. One of Tali’s new friends, one of her closest friends, left to die alone: The first taste of death aboard the old Normandy, when the illusion had finally been shattered. The first inklings of dread had started that day, sitting in the corner of her view like a nightmare she couldn’t wake from. Who would be next to die?

If she had known then…

The shower-head squeaked and the water stopped. Brought back to the present, Tali leaned back in the human chair. She let the present chase the past away. Jane was alive, and they were here, now. Together. She got up, pressing a sympathetic finger against the glass of Boo’s cage. Airtight and filtered, it was full of toys for the little hamster. In a few hours he’d be allowed out again, but not right now. The sly rodent fixed her with its moody, dark eyes.

She padded over to the aquarium, taking in the brilliant forms of the fish. Her VI was working wonders, keeping all of them well fed. She resisted the urge to tinker with it. It would’ve only been to distract her anyway, keep the jitters from overwhelming the poor girl. Despite her higher reaction time and a suit sensor warning, the hissing of the bathroom door spun her around.

“Why do five minutes always go by so damn fast?” Jane asked, running a hand over her still-damp hair. Annoyance vanished behind her typical smile, and she spread her arms. “How do I look, date-night material?”

The socially aware part of her brain squirmed, but in the privacy of the cabin Tali let her eyes wander. Down past the hair and the smile, and that easy smile. Jane was frustratingly covered up, donning a simple grey shirt that hid her physique. But over it, she wore the bootleg N7 hoodie she’d bought back on Illium. Something about seeing her in it, even just a knockoff copy, it made the air heavy in her mask. She wore it so casually, like the token of her affection was a second skin. Her eyes fell below her waist, to a loose-fitting pair of sweats. Predatory hunger flared, then the young engineer returned.

“You look… nice.” Her face burned at the stupid compliment, only deepening as she sauntered over.

“Nice, huh?” She smirked, putting an arm around her. “Been practicing that one?”

“Shut, up!” She pouted, shaking her helmet. “I’m just nervous, that’s all. Even with the precautions, it’s still going to be direct exposure, and-”

Tali shut her mouth, eyes wide.

“Which, sounds really bad when I say it like that. T-that’s not what I meant, this isn’t… I mean I don’t think of it like…”

“Easy there, smooth talker. No offense taken.” Jane’s chuckle seemed to fill the room. “I was thinking we could settle in, watch a vid?” She gave her a grin. “Something with animals, maybe?”

“Keelah, yes please.” She nodded, letting her lead her to the couch.

Sitting herself into the crook of the L-shape, Jane already had the holo-screen up and searching. She glanced the selection for a second, before letting gravity pull her down onto the soft leather. It wasn’t something a human might think about, but being able to take up all the space on the couch, letting her long legs stretch out? It was so decadent.

The quarian dragged herself that little bit further, nestling against her girlfriend’s chest. She cast a look down her body, not subtly enough to go unnoticed. Tali couldn’t keep the smug grin off her face. She was getting very used to those looks. Soon her favourite arm was around her again, and she sighed with contentment as the documentary came to life.

“You’ll like this one.” She could hear the smile in her voice.

The screen was alive with the visage of an Earth coastline. Blue breaking waves met sand and sheer cliffs. A melodic human voice narrated the scenes, giving context to the captivating tapestry of natural wonder. Tali couldn’t keep a maternal coo inside when she saw the floppy, dog-like mammals dominating a beach. She’d seen dogs before, but these “seals” had little flippers in place of legs. Combined with some truly big eyes on the babies, they were just adorable.

Her happy coos got a rough chuckle from above, and that attentive human hand stroked down her arm. Jane always got touchier when they shared the couch like this. Last time she’d been too preoccupied with the vid to take advantage. Not this time. She flicked on her Omni-tool for a second.

“Bored already?” Jane teased; settling her hand in the synch of her waist She flashed an invisible smile.

“No…” She protested with a whine. “Just getting comfortable.”

Sensation. Wonderful sensation. The weight and heat of Jane’s arm came into sharp focus, her suit’s sensory layer sending a tantalising fabrication to her neural implants. Greedily she tugged at her, getting that arm to close a little tighter. Between her girlfriend’s touch and the softness of the couch beneath her, Tali revelled in the snugness. A natural lover of tight spaces, it wasn’t often she got to indulge it outside of a service tunnel or air vent. It was safe to say she’d found the very best of both worlds.

As Tali came back to the vid, she saw a pair of very large birds. “Albatrosses”. The narrator talked about them as they waddled back and forth, dipping and bowing their heads. Long necks swayed from side to side, and wings were held out in display. Tali lay there, her helmet sinking down onto Jane’s lap. They were dancing together.

She watched, utterly enrapt as these two creatures matched each other’s movements perfectly, leading and following in these intricate motions. The narration faded against the sight itself, but she absorbed it nonetheless. These birds… they paired for life. A knot formed in her stomach, the quarian’s hand instinctively searching for its human companion.

“Remind you of anything?” Jane asked, giving her a knowing squeeze.

“It might, if you could dance.” She grinned impishly as her hand slackened. For a moment the woman sulked in silence.

“I have other talents.” She bit back with confidence.

“Oh?” Tali played along. “Such as?”

No retort came. Instead, Jane’s hand slipped from hers, sliding along her belly. The suit tracked her touch, tickling the young woman’s mind as it moved to her thigh. The whole thing caught her by surprise. Soon the documentary faded into the background. Tali’s breathing deepened, doing her best to play it off. The damn human was winding her tighter and tighter, casually playing around. Her legs pressed together, and as if on cue, she stopped. Jane contented herself drawing circles over her bellybutton, leaving her to stew in arousal.

“Like knowing when my girlfriend’s nerve stim is on.” She grinned. “Subtle, by the way.”

“Oh you’re such a bosh’tet.” She snarled back through a smile.

With a thought she paused the vid. She got up, surprising the handsome human before snatching her hand. She caught on quick, and she led her over to the bed. She kept her a few steps away, just enough for her to breathe. Desire guided her every move, further and further on. HUD readouts badgered her as she tapped at her Omni-tool, bringing up her suit seals. Ignoring the warnings, she hovered a finger over the display.

She stopped.

Tali looked down at her hands, flexing them slightly: Three digits on each, their true appearance hidden beneath gloves. All at once, a cold front washed over her. Passion froze in her veins. In the midst of all their planning, all the conversations the two of them had ever had. She’d never actually told her what she looked like. This would be the first time she’d see her… the real her.

“What’s wrong?” Jane’s concern came with a gentle touch. She flinched, cursing her nerve-stimulator. She let go, the whole ordeal spinning her around to face her. The worry on her face made her chest tighten.

“I…” Tali blanked, utterly paralysed. “Just, prepping the suit. Doing some final scans. Can’t be too safe, right?” Her chuckle was hollow. She hoped she wouldn’t notice.

Tali turned back to the bed, Jane keeping a respectful few steps away. She wished she could see the gratitude on her face. After one more glance down at her gloves, she activated the Omni-tool’s command. For the last time, a nagging prompt appeared on her visor. She knew it wasn’t perfectly clean, and she didn’t care. Unbuckling the clasps of her bracers, she slid them off her gloves. The purple fabric was now unobstructed, the swirling desert winds of Clan Zorah adorning the material. The symbol of her ancestors, free and brave. Just above the wrist, there was a near-invisible seam. Beneath it was a locking system that served as one of many section seals.

She inhaled, and disengaged the lock.

Already Tali could feel the difference. The near-constant sense of oneness was broken, air filling the vacuum in her gloves: Her heart rate shot up, instinctual panic setting in for a few seconds. Gritting her teeth, Tali wrestled it down. Bringing her hands together, she gave her left glove’s finger a tug. Slowly it slid forward, violet giving way to black at her wrist. Then the striking flash of lightest lilac, it made her queasy.

With one last breath, she pulled the entire thing free. Underneath it, jutting out from the suit like a bone from a grisly wound; was her naked hand. Tali’s eyes widened at the sight. It had been eight months since she’d seen it: Slender and feminine, splashes of deeper purple on her knuckles slowly forming into brushstroke stripes as they ascended her wrist. Her fingers and thumb were thicker than a human’s, each digit tipped with a small, curving claw. Though kept safely blunted by the gloves, they still bore that dangerous look. They were black, contrasting sharply against her pale skin.

This was too much, too different.

Clutching the glove in her right hand, a war raged inside the quarian. She could just slip it back on; enjoy what she already had with Jane. Keelah, the last thing she wanted was to frighten her. But then her nervous fingers unconsciously touched, and it sent a jolt through the woman. What her mind remembered, her body had forgotten. The feeling was immediate and powerful. She needed more. She let the first glove fall to the bed, closing her bare hand around the second one. Fabric assaulted her, rubbing against her palm and fingers. Much faster this time, she pulled its sister free. The second glove fell by the first, leaving a trembling Tali’Zorah, feeling naked as the day she was born.

This was it.

So many thoughts buzzed inside her mind, she couldn’t focus on any one of them. Every passing second, she thought she was going to die. That somehow the treatment wouldn’t work, and her skin would rash and welt: Her alien, striped skin, pale and sickly and the farthest thing from human. Jane was going to be surprised, like anyone would. This was going to be a new experience for her. If she stared, or made a face, she swore it wouldn’t matter. However she felt, she trusted the woman implicitly. This woman… Jane. The woman she’d loved for so long. She was just a few feet away, waiting for her. She took the deepest breath she could. Her feet felt heavy, carrying her around to her.

The first thing she saw was that smile. Warm and honest, it accompanied those captivating blue eyes. One last spike of anxiety had made her fists close, desperately trying to hide her claws. She felt like an idiot, standing there with her arms in front of her, hands balled to fists. Unsure of what to do, she held them out for her. Her heart pounded as those eyes made their way to her naked skin. Sweat beaded on her face, watching for the smallest sign of discomfort. Those wonderful, caring eyes widened, and the breath caught in her lungs. She saw the confident commander fall away, replaced by something she didn’t dare guess at.

“You…” She blinked in awe. “You’ve got stripes.” Her gaze followed them up to the sleeves of her suit. Something in the way she said it, set her body on fire.

“That’s not…” She struggled to form words. “They’re not too weird, right?” Her question seemed to awaken her from a trance.

“Weird?” She was looking into her now. “No, they’re beautiful. I’ve never…” She trailed off, brows rising as her hands shook violently. Hearing her say that about her. Not the suit, the real her. “Tali?”

Sucking in a shallow breath, she let her fingers unfurl. The brilliant lilac and splashes of violet were marred by curving, sharp black. Seeing them there, hanging off her like meat hooks, she knew what was coming. Sure enough, Jane’s face lit up with realisation. Her mouth parted, taking in the full visage. Tali felt sick, her stomach churned and bile climbed the back of her throat.

Why hadn’t she just kept the gloves on?

Then she saw it: Her human hand, reaching for hers. All rational thought vanished, and primal fear took the quarian. She pulled her hands to her chest, the fabric crashing against them. Pain shot through her, mixing with shame, as Jane’s worry grew.

No, not worry… fear.

“I’m sorry.” She stumbled, her voice shaking. “I-I should’ve…”

Shivers travelled through Tali’s body, guilt and uncertainty flooding into her mind. Her eyes darted from those pale, clawed hands to Jane. Seeing her stand there, unsure of what to do, it only made everything worse. The cabin air bit at her skin, still raw from the fabric. The threat of a reaction returned, or was that what she was feeling now? She needed a moment alone, without all of this. Frozen to the spot, she screwed her eyes shut. Panting inside her mask, she tried to calm herself. But every thought was like a sandstorm, lashing her, yet impossible to grasp.

Suddenly, a spear of burning light pierced down through the maelstrom. Every thought, every emotion was consumed in a roaring fire, blazing across her surface. A thousand nerve endings sang out, starving neural pathways swelled like rain-fed rivers. It was an impossible sensation, one that her suit couldn’t even hope to match. It was the most wonderful, most perfect feeling of her life: Skin, Jane’s skin, touching hers.

The minute ridges of her alien fingers teased her, a certainty in their pressure as they closed around hers. She gave the gentlest pull, and she went willingly. Her eyes opened to see her there, like always. She was focused on her hands, holding them so carefully in hers. Her careful touch slowly opened them, and soon they were resting atop hers.

“Called it, didn’t I?” She said softly, her eyes still fixed on her naked skin. “You do have pretty hands.”

For a moment, Tali thought she was going to faint. Her legs were like jelly. A lungful of air escaped her, and she wobbled on her feet. She gripped her for balance; the feeling of her grasp hit her like lightning. Her commander was back, holding her steady.

“You okay?”

Jane’s voice sounded far away. Only the all-encompassing warmth of her touch was clear. She stared at the union of their hands in disbelief, barely able to breathe. The way she held them, there wasn’t even a hint of apprehension. Fire roared under her skin, forcing something up. Hot, slick tears rolled down her cheeks. Just then, air came back to her lungs in a racking sob.

For a moment, she was back on Freedom’s Progress, back in the arms of the woman she’d lost two years ago. That indescribable feeling, so far beyond hope. So far beyond joy. She felt it again, on her very skin. Tali let that feeling carry her, to the other side of this perfect moment. She let it slow her breaths, and halt the tears from her eyes. Soon the storm inside her calmed, and the world returned to her. Blinking away the last drops, she suddenly realised how long she’d been silent.

“Jane, I-” She bit her tongue for a second at her stern look.

“If you say you’re sorry again Miss Zorah, I’m confining you to the cabin.” Jane warned gently, cutting her off. “You’ve got nothing to be sorry for, okay?”

She could see it in her eyes; she meant every word.

“Aye, Captain.” She said with a little smile, letting her guilt whither away.

“Besides, you can make it up to me.” She said with a wink. Lovingly she splayed her fingers. “I bet you’re a wonder when it comes to back-scratches.”

A snorting giggle came out of her. Tearstained cheeks pulled into a dumb grin, and her pointed teeth flashed behind her faceplate. How she wished she could see the way she made her smile. Cautiously she curled her fingers around hers, sliding her three between her five. Her claws pressed softly into her skin, causing a momentary pause. Until she squeezed her, catching the quarian off guard.

“Bosh’tet!” She yelped, trying to return the favour. “You’re lucky they’re not sharp!”

“No doubt.” She grinned, fearless as she pressed her thumb against one. “Always knew you were a tiger.”

Tali rolled her eyes; bracing herself for what would no doubt be a new thing she’d torment her with. But even as the smirk on her face faded, those blue eyes took in her bare hands. There was something captivating in the way she looked at them, as she studied every detail. It seemed her stripes were of particular interest. She delighted in seeing her follow them down to her suit’s sleeves.

“I should’ve told you, before we got this far.” She said in a small voice. “It’s not fair on you. I get to see you every day. But you came all this way with me, and you never even knew what I looked like.” Her eyes fell. “…You still don’t.”

“Hey.” She cupped the chin of her helmet. “Means I’ve got more to look forward to.” She said confidently. She relished in it, letting the woman’s certainty carry away her anxiety.

“Now…” She held her attention completely. “Since we went to all the trouble… wanna take a tour?”

She brought her hands to her chest, introducing them to the slightly rough texture of the shirt. Desire crept back into the quarian, running out to the tips of her bare fingers.

“Yes.” She eked out breathlessly. The warmth of her touch left her wrists, giving the quarian complete control.

“I’m all yours.” She smiled.

“T-take off your shirt.” She ordered, feeling unsure of her new power.

Jane’s smile became a grin. She obediently bowed her head, making her stomach clench. The N7 hoodie slid from her shoulders, and she placed her gift to her on the table. She took care with it, something that made her heart swell. She gripped the fabric of her grey tee shirt, effortlessly drawing it up and over her head. She hungrily took in the sun-kissed skin. Pale, but not like hers.

Solid segments of alien muscle showed beneath, truly cementing the size and power of the commander. Broad shouldered and thick waisted, her stature would’ve been intimidating if she didn’t know the woman. She noticed the fur covering her, most of it quite fine. Not too different from her own, if a lot more obvious. It was strange; she’d seen her topless before. But now, it felt so different. Now it was hers to enjoy.

Rubbing her fingers together nervously, she placed her hands on her bare chest. The couple were just inches apart, and she could feel her looking at her from above. She still couldn’t believe how soft her skin was. Just below the surface she could feel the solid muscle, her fingers tracing along the definition. Hair tickled her palms, offering no resistance as she enjoyed the feast of new sensations. She would’ve been giggling if she weren’t so spellbound.

“You’re… so soft.” She finally uttered the compliment, feeling her chest rise with a chuckle.

“I take it that’s good?” Jane asked, a little uncertain.

“Yes.” Tali’s answer did little to disguise her appreciation. “Rough surfaces, they… can be too much. But this, your hands, it’s nice.” She looked up at her, conveying a smile as best she could. For a moment, she saw pain behind those eyes.

“It’s been… a little weird. Getting restored to factory new.” She admitted. “Lost a bit of my tough-guy charm.” She quickly added with a smirk.

“Well I like it.” Tali assured her, letting her hands slide further down. “Besides, you’re still strong underneath.” She purred, with a mischievous glint in her gaze.

“Just what have I unleashed?” She joked, as her claws gently grazed her abs. That was enough for them to tighten. Had she found a weak spot? She sunk into a squat, looking up at her as she tested her theory.

The playfulness halted when her fingertips brushed against twisted scar tissue. The change in texture was shocking: Enough to make her freeze up. Her eyes found the remains of that hideous wound the burning Collector had inflicted. Three deep punctures, connected by the horrid ripping of flesh that had ensued in the struggle. She remembered the pain in her legs, forcing herself to sprint across the battlefield. Any monster that could almost kill Jane would’ve dispatched her with ease. But the thought didn’t even enter her mind as she’d unloaded her shotgun into it.

“I still… think about this, sometimes.” She said quietly.

“Would’ve been gutted if you hadn’t been there.” Shepard’s warm hand found hers. “Saved me twice in one day.”

“Good thing we’re not keeping score, then.” She joked, eyeing the patch of hair leading down from her belly button. Carnal curiosity beckoned her onward; it would be the only chance she’d get for a while…

She stood tall again, forcing the primitive plain-walker back into her cage. There’d be time for that, and she wanted to be ready for it. No half-measures. Instead she stepped back, making a show of ogling her human girlfriend. She rested her hands on her hips, reflecting her playful smugness right back.

“Want me to turn around?” She asked, catching her unprepared. “It’ll cost extra.”

“No.” She shook her helmet. “I want you to lie on the bed, on your stomach.”

“Well, well, Tali’Zorah…”

“Keelah just do it, please.” She pointed a naked finger, feeling flustered enough already.

She lingered long enough to narrow her eyes, but she relented. Taking care not to disturb her gloves, Jane made a show of falling onto the bed. The way it bent… relented to her weight… Tali was glad the suit blunted her claws for a totally new reason. Even if fully sharp, they wouldn’t be able to tear through the armoured layers of it, being stab-proof. But Ancestors help her she would’ve tried. With her hands on her head, it was clear she was having fun with the whole thing. Not mockery, more like showing off. Something she thought of punishing a little.

Quickly she was on top of the human, sitting comfortably in the small of her back. Her own weight pressed down on her, and she folded her long legs to really pin her there. It hadn’t been too long ago she’d made fun of her for it. She’d be lying if this weren’t a spot of revenge. Rocking her hips a little, Tali got comfortable before walking her hands up her back. She took it slow, looking down at the spattering of tiny shrapnel scars she still bore. It felt like forever ago, that night they’d met again. Angling a clawed fingertip, she gently touched them one by one.

“I thought I’d gone crazy when I saw you again.” She mused.

“Considering what we’re doing, I think you may be right.” Jane agreed. She smiled for a moment, before the fun faded.

“I missed you…” She added, a knot in her throat. “…Every day.”

“Tali, I…”

She pressed her hands into her back, shushing her. Pain and love mixed inside her mind, and she shook her helmet. She would not hear her apologise for it, not to her.

“It’s okay.”

She had to move on.

Tali focused her attention further up, to those broad shoulders. There was another little tremor when her bare finger followed the crease between her shoulder blades. In all her time with her, the quarian had never imagined she’d make her feel that way, with her true form no less. She wanted to lose herself in it, let sensation consume them both. An idea came to mind, but not before the sight of another old scar.

“Does it… still hurt?” She asked; tracing the edge of the burn she’d suffered protecting her.

“No.” She assured her. “Karin worked her magic like always, and she had this lovely assistant…”

“That “lovely assistant” nearly crushed your gel pack she was holding it so tightly.” Tali jabbed, rolling her eyes with flushed cheeks.

“What was it you said, about making it up to you?”

With newfound confidence, Tali flexed her clawed fingers. It was time to put them to the test. She slid her hands over her back, greedily taking in the texture and heat of her human skin as she did so. Finally they came to a stop at her shoulders, her long fingers curling over them. Then, slowly, she let her claws drag down her back. With the deftness and precision of a veteran engineer, she kept the pressure constant: Just enough to leave tracks behind, but not painful welts. A deep, baritone sigh travelled through Jane’s body. She almost felt it beneath her. Something inside the girl answered, purring up from her core. Tali’s thighs tightened around her waist.

She raked those pointed fingertips further and further down, tracing playfully along the dimples and muscles. There were a few noteworthy changes in Jane’s breathing, even once where it paused altogether. The pride she felt in being able to do that to her, it wouldn’t fade anytime soon. Beyond that pride was envy. After feeling the exquisite sensation of her skin on hers, she hungered for more. She wanted her hands on her, exploring her contours as she explored hers. She wanted the heat of her breath on her neck, those flat teeth nicking her skin. Her thoughts plunged, deeper and warmer. All of it was just beyond her grasp. So tantalisingly, maddeningly close…

When Jane rolled over, she nearly took her with her. Squeezing legs released the woman, and she jockeyed to stay on top as she lay on her back. She leaned forward, her hands on her chest again. She cocked an eyebrow. The request didn’t need voicing. Her frantic mind had already dialled up her nerve-stimulator. Though in truth it’s feedback had been outshone by the blazing nerves of her bare skin. That was until she felt those large, strong hands of hers on her thighs.

Her own breath caught, riding the wave as they lazily slid upward toward her hips. She denied the human a whine, trying to keep her composure. But then those fingers clenched down, sinking into the supple plush of her ass. A long, shuddering groan came out of her, hands clenching and head falling between her shoulders. In the daze of pleasure, she hadn’t realised how rough she’d been. Ragged breaths accompanied the sight of red welts on Jane’s chest. A shard of guilt sliced through the fog of her mind. Something Jane caught.

“Having fun?” She asked.

“Y-yes.” Tali nodded, the honesty palpable in her voice.

“Looks like it.” She smiled; eyeing the “gift” she’d left her.

“You’re not… going to tell anyone about that, right?” She got the words out between breaths. Her answer came when those hands travelled up her waist, hoisting the young woman forward so she could cuddle up beside her.

“Never.” She leaned forward and bonked her visor, bringing a crooked smile to her face. For a while they enjoyed the silence together, but try as she might, the quarian couldn’t keep her hands still for long.

Tali ran her hand up her neck, feeling the slow pulse beneath the skin. Afterward, she indulged in the textures of her hair. The soft shag that covered the crown of her head. Such variation, barely inches apart. For a time, Tali had held a certain disdain for human hair. Born from the likes of Miranda and though she hated to admit it, Ashley before her. Tali’s eyes glanced to the violet hood that fell around her helmet. She sighed.

“Any news from Doctor Chakwas?” Tali asked, gently rubbing the glowing scars on Jane’s cheek. She took her exploring hand in hers.

“She says they’re still healing. Slowly.” She forced the smile on her face. “I believe her official prescription was to be calm, empathetic, mindful.” She chuckled to herself. “Y’know, the old me.” Tali’s brow furrowed, and she squeezed her hand.

“You are the old you.” She assured her. Those beautiful blue eyes settled on her, and her smile widened.

“Wanna know something funny?” She asked. She nodded, enjoying the sight of their hands together. “Karin told me she’s seen an “uptick” in my healing. Even after Horizon, she said the rate was still above the old norm, even though it slowed again.” Tucking an arm around her, she pulled Tali closer. “Know when that uptick started? The day you came aboard.”

Tali’s eyes widened in realisation, she lay there speechless.

“So I was thinking…” She spoke again, setting her hand on her chest. “For the sake of the Captain’s health, we should pencil in a few more of those back-scratches.” Tali’s heart pounded. “And from now on, we share this cabin.” She added, rolling on top of her.

“I want to wake up to you, every day.”

Tali’s mouth was dry, her hands unconsciously pressed against her. Looking up into her eyes, she feared she’d melt right through her suit. Looping her fingers around her neck, she pulled her down on top of her. Playfulness bloomed into sincerity, and she pressed her mask to her forehead.

“So do I.” She breathed, holding her in her shining gaze. “More than anything.”

Every fibre of Tali’s being wished for the glass between them to vanish. As if she read her mind, Jane took her hand from her neck. She planted a long, soft kiss on her skin.

She wanted it to last forever, to take her affection and bind it to her very soul. Those lips pecked along her naked, tingling surface. Countless nights she’d dreamed of it, longed to know what such impossibility might be like.

Now they were here, sharing the impossible together. And it was better than she’d ever imagined.