Chapter 10: Ruin

The clatter of her shotgun against the cold stone floor snapped Tali back to alertness. Slumped down against the wall, she’d only taken a moment to rest. Forcing her eyes wide open, she looked down at her Omni-tool, still glowing on her arm and awaiting command. The noise had caught the attention of the other marines, two of them looked over in her direction. With some effort, she lifted a hand up to apologise before focusing on the task. Fighting herself to retain some dexterity, the young engineer inputted the manual activation code for her suit’s stimulant pack. A flashing red warning appeared in her helmet’s heads-up display, followed by an audio recording. The monotone voice of her VI recited what she already knew; this would be the third dose of stimulants she’d needed that day.

 

The effects from the dosing had already become apparent. Tali’s normally steady hands were trembling, and even the meagre glow of her holographic gauntlet hurt her overly sensitive eyes. So far the nausea hadn’t set in, but one particular moment of dizziness was still fresh in the quarian’s mind. Three straight days of work with barely six hours of sleep were catching up with her. The plan, of course, had been to burn herself out helping Dr Vassa and the research team get their data. Then they’d all high tail it back to the Nualli and she could sleep on the flight to the Citadel.

 

But that didn’t matter now. Tola was dead, her team was dead, and their luck had run out.

 

Finally Tali’s sluggish fingers tapped out the override code. She felt needles biting into her skin, before a jolt flooded her system. Her body shook violently, hands clenching to fists as the stimulant took effect. She grit her pointed teeth, listening to her heart pounding and her breath quickening. The others noticed her display, offering sympathetic looks. Everyone had dosed up by now; things were getting desperate. She rode out the painful wake-up call, thankful when her energy returned. Picking up her shotgun, she struggled to her feet, making her way over toward a similarly exhausted Kal’Reegar. The two of them, along with their medic Riah, Myrr and two other marines had taken up refuge in one of the dilapidated buildings littering the Haestrom settlement. The room was small, probably just a storage closet in it’s heyday. Without power, it had been a frustrating process opening and then closing the automatic door, grinding metal fighting the weary troops every inch. Inside it was pitch black, only illuminated now by some glow sticks. The dim green light did little to calm the mood; everyone was thinking the same thing.

 

“Any luck?” Tali asked the red-suited marine. He turned to face her and she pointed to her helmet’s ear.

 

“Nothing.” Kal shook his head, doing his best to hide his own tiredness. “I got something from OP-3 a couple hours ago, but it’s been static ever since.” Tali nodded, glancing down to Riah and Myrr. Her face scrunched up in pained sympathy seeing the poor boy’s leg again.

 

“How’s he doing?” She asked, looking away.

 

“Riah, can you give us an update?” Kal asked, looking down at the two of them. The medic gave her patient a gentle pat on the shoulder before getting up. She led them away from him a few steps, leaning in to speak privately.

 

“Impact broke his ankle and shin, shrapnel opened up the suit.” Riah forced her assessment out through a sigh. “I’ve covered the wound in patches and medi-gel… but my Omni-tool’s detecting infection in his bloodstream.”

 

Tali closed her eyes in shame.

 

“How long does he have?” Kal asked, stealing a glance over at the young marine.

 

“With the antihistamines I just gave him? Half an hour, tops.” The medic shrugged. “He’s gonna go into anaphylactic shock. There’s nothing I can do to stop it.”

 

“Damn it.” Kal kept his voice down, biting back his rage. For a minute he didn’t say anything, weighing up his request. Tali felt her hands fidgeting, the first time she’d let that nervous tick surface in months. Her agitated mind was consumed with guilt, threatening to take what little remained of her composure.

 

“Sir?” Riah’s voice brought the both of them back to the situation. “What are your orders?”

 

“You still got sedatives on hand?” Kal asked.

 

“Yes sir.” Riah held her professional tone, clearly prepared for what was coming next.

 

“Okay.” Kal took a moment before giving the order. “Let’s… go make this easy for him.”

 

Kal and Riah were soon by Myrr’s side, leaving Tali alone. He looked up at her, past the two quarians that had come to his aid. They locked eyes, and for a moment the engineer thought she’d vomit right then and there. Something icy tightened around her guts, everything inside her wanted to look away, to flee the room. But Myrr deserved better than that. Instead, she forced herself over to him, one foot in front of the other. Trying to keep her gaze off his mangled leg, Tali instead focused on his mask.

 

“Myrr?” Riah’s voice was soft, gripping the boy’s shoulder.

 

“Doc…” Myrr was panting, starting to shiver. “I don’t wanna… don’t leave me here.” He begged.

 

“Nobody’s leaving you.” Riah assured him. She moved in closer, comforting the marine.

 

“I…” Myrr’s voice shook, falling away. His shining eyes screwed shut and his whole body shook with sobs. “…I’m scared.”

 

“Hey.” Riah took his hand in hers, giving it a squeeze. The young man’s eyes came back to her. “I’m right here, you’re going to be okay.” This time, Myrr could only manage a whimper. Riah gently set an injector against his arm. “This will help with the pain, alright? Just take some deep breaths with me.”

 

Myrr’Jorin gave the medic a weak nod. Pressing the injector against his suit, Riah clicked the button. The syringe emptied the sedative into him and the small device was discarded. Putting her arm around the boy, Riah leaned her helmet on his. Together, the two of them took a deep breath in, counting down the seconds. Slowly, the marine’s shivering began to subside as they exhaled, counting down again. In and out, the pair of them practiced.

 

Tali saw Myrr’s grip slacken around Riah’s hand, but she stayed there beside him, helping the young soldier through his last long breath. Finally Myrr went limp, and the medic carefully laid him down on the floor. Seeing him die like that, after what had happened, it was too much. She moved away, clamping her hands over her mask and letting out shaky breaths. Before long, Kal was beside her.

 

“Tali?” He called her name, moving into her eye-line. She just shook her head.

 

“It’s my fault.” She forced the words out. “If I hadn’t tripped on that stupid…” She couldn’t even finish the sentence. “He didn’t deserve to die like that.”

 

“I know…” Kal nodded, putting a reassuring hand on her shoulder. “But nobody’s blaming you, okay? What happened at the observatory could’ve happened to anyone.”

 

“But if I’d just… we should’ve gone straight to the ship, like you said.” Tali’s hands fell away, guilt boiling to anger. “Now Myrr’s dead… Zara’s dead. Tola…” She bit her lip. “Damn it, I promised those scientists we’d protect them!”

 

“Tali!” Kal’s commanding tone brought her back. “I need you, alright. I can’t have you falling apart on me.” He put a hand on the chin of her helmet, guiding her eyes to his. “You’ve still got the data?”

 

She nodded.

 

“Then we’ve still got a job to do.” Kal asserted. Tali took a calming breath.

 

“Right. The Nualli’s not far from our position, if we hug the buildings hopefully we’ll avoid the patrol ship.” She laid out the plan, feeling some control coming back to her.

 

“Sounds good.” Kal agreed. Moving to the centre of the small room, he spoke up. “Alright everyone, break’s over. We’ve still got some ground to cover. Remember, move and shoot, don’t let the synthetic bastards pin you down. We all know how much they love the raining geth trick.”

 

“Sir?” One of the marines stepped forward. “What if the ship’s trashed? You sure we shouldn’t bunker down somewhere?” Kal paused, then shook his head.

 

“Help’s not coming.” He said grimly. “Trashed or not, we don’t have any other options. We get to the ship, get her airborne and get out of here.”

 

“Yes sir!” The three remaining marines fell in, saluting. The two men moved to open the door, while Riah kept the mechanism steady. Kal turned back to Tali, catching her eye.

 

“You good to go?” He asked, unslinging his rifle.

 

“Yeah.” Tali gave a stoic nod, gripping her shotgun. “Good to go.”

 

The heavy metal door slowly slid open, forced up by quarian strength. The creaking gave the squad a shiver; at this point they wanted to make as little noise as possible. Sunlight rushed in to greet them; they must’ve been in there longer than she thought. The bright light stung Tali’s eyes; her suit quickly sensed the discomfort, dimming the mask’s visor. Sometimes she truly treasured the damn thing. Under the sunrise, she kept as close as she could to the wall. The ruins all around them offered criss-crossing shadows to help cloak their movement, and the envirosuits they wore masked some of their body heat. The last time they’d been outside, the sounds of gunfire had echoed throughout the settlement. Whatever remained of OP-2, 3 and 4 were now either hiding, or dead. Thankfully, so far there didn’t seem to be any geth around. Ever since last night the patrol ship had been making passes over the area, dropping machines on them by the dozen. It had been hell just getting into that room. Even with natural night-vision and the bastards having flashlight heads, getting attacked in the wee hours of the morning had been a disorienting and terrifying experience.

 

One moment, a very tired Tali’Zorah had been stumbling back to her uncomfortable foldout bed, then the ground shook with the booming of explosions. One of the perimeter camps had been hit first, a sniper perch with three guys in it. The geth hadn’t even bothered with mobile platforms for that, they’d just bombed it. She still remembered the brilliant orange flashes, lighting up the underside of the insect-like ship. There’d barely been time to think before the huge thing flew over her, firing plasma at the observatory and dropping geth into the courtyard: Running and screaming, more gunfire, more explosions. It was blind luck she ran into Kal when she did. All it had taken was a few hours, and everything had unravelled.

 

The squad moved down the main street, a long empty space connecting the observatory and the protected landing platform. Progress was slow, with constant adjustments to avoid direct sunlight. After three days, only Tali had managed to keep her suit’s barrier emitters functional. She’d tried her best with Kal, but only his torso emitters worked now. Riah’s had all but gone, along with the other two marines. Without proper shielding, even a single shot could be life threatening. She scanned the rooftops, looking for snipers or any sign of the patrol ship. For now, the skies seemed clear. The sheer absence of fighting was making her more and more nervous. She’d only stimmed up an hour ago, and already she could feel the exhaustion creeping back into the edges of her brain. Treading carefully over the bombed-out terrain, Tali wobbled on her feet, swaying nearly off balance before Riah caught her. Kal had thankfully been ahead, and not seen it.

 

“You okay ma’am?” Riah asked, looking the engineer over.

 

“Yeah… just feeling it a little bit.” Tali assured the medic. “I’m fine.”

 

“Alright.” Riah nodded. “We’re close now anyway, just need to stay upright for a little-”

 

Her encouraging words died in her mouth as the monstrous figure of the geth ship loomed into view. The squad dashed for cover, Tali felt the pain in her shoulder as she slid down behind a lane divider. The five quarians were all hidden from view, but the ship had spotted them first. Cruising overhead, it began to litter the area with geth. A platoon of synthetic troopers were scattered between them and the Nualli. Soon two primes joined them, the hulking geth platforms opened fire with heavy machineguns. With the patrol ship readying for another pass, there was no way the squad could maintain a firefight for long.

 

Tali thought fast, peering over her cover at the enemy. Tapping at her Omni-tool, she readied a hacking program. Sending out her purple attack drone, she pointed to the geth’s left flank. Chatika took off, zipping between cover and around gunfire until it was in position. Soon two of the robot troopers had turned their attention to the drone, opening a small window. Tali leaned over her cover, wincing as bullets struck against her barrier. Locking up the first prime, she hacked into its processor. The tall machine stopped its onslaught, turning its machinegun on its allies instead. For a moment all the other geth, including the second prime focused fire on the traitor. Tali saw her chance and she took it.

 

“Everyone, move into the building to our left!” She called out over the radio. “We’ll cut across and lose them!”

 

Kal concurred, throwing a sensor blinding chaff grenade. On naturally swift legs, the five quarians made a mad dash for the building. The confusion had only bought them seconds however, and soon bullets were nipping at their heels. The leading marine made it first, along with Kal. Then Tali and Riah skirted behind the building’s cover. The engineer turned back in time to see the trailing marine vaporised by a plasma shot from the geth ship. She’d never even learned his name, and now he was gone. Her emotions were forced down as quickly as they rose; the enemy platoon was already pursuing them. Making a quick count of enemy numbers, Tali was relieved to see three of the geth troopers had been destroyed. She pushed to the front of the squad, swapping places with the lead marine. Together she and Kal took point, checking along the wall and past the debris for an ambush. Behind them Riah and her squad-mate fired their rifles back down the covered walkway. They were all running now, outpacing the geth if just barely. Sunlight was peeking around the corner, inviting them back outside. Tali took the lead, her keen eyes trained on the blind spot.

 

Suddenly, the faintest shimmer caught her attention. It was only visible for a second, the hint of a shape, like a figure made of glass. She didn’t even hesitate. Her shotgun barked, spraying a volley of pellets into the empty air ahead of them. Kal flinched beside her when that empty air was instantly filled with the intimidating figure of a geth hunter. With its cloak disabled, the black machine fired it’s own plasma shotgun. Tali called out the attack, she and Kal instinctively leaping sideways. The two other quarians followed, barely dodging the slow projectiles. The engineer responded in kind, her assault shotgun firing five quick blasts. Electrified pellets tore through the hunter’s shields and soon through armour. White conductive fluid painted the wall, and the geth fell down dead. There was no time to savour victory, the marine on Riah’s flank cried out when a trooper found their mark. Retreating around the corner, Tali and Kal held the synthetics off while the medic quickly slapped a patch over the breach. With a tug of the wounded marine’s arm, the four of them set off at a pace down the adjacent street. Ahead of them the way looked clear, with the protected landing zone in sight. There didn’t appear to be any sign the Nualli had been found, and hope was all the quarians had left.

 

Moving from cover to cover, the squad backed their way toward the objective. The second prime had re-joined its platoon, the chattering of machinegun fire once again pinning them down. Tali was on her own, a little beyond the rest of her squad. Pulling her pistol, she carefully fired past them downrange. She saw the ripple of the geth’s shields from her attack, but the effects of the stimulants were throwing her aim. By the time her thermal clip was used, not even a single trooper had been killed.

 

“Tali!” Kal’s voice was in her helmet.

 

“I’m just ahead of you.” She stuck her head out for the marine. He gave a quick nod before ducking down again.

 

“Can you get the big guy’s attention? I’ve got an idea.”

 

Tali shook her head. She knew what his plan was, he’d been lugging around that rocket launcher all day. For her part, she was certain it was fried. Still, it was worth a shot.

 

“Alright, just say when.”

 

“Now!”

 

Steadying her hands, the young woman fired every shot from her pistol at the giant geth. Even with the added stopping power of her hand cannon, the machine shrugged off the bullets. However she’d done the job, and a hail of gunfire came her way. Flattening herself against the ground, Tali watched as tracers flew overhead, with more than a few chipping away at the debris she was hiding behind. All at once, the gunfire stopped. A loud explosion reported from down the street, followed by the excited yelling of a quarian. Tali slowly peered back over the barricade. The other marines were jogging over to her, behind them a smouldering crater. The engineer was impressed, more at the toughness of the launcher than Kal’s reckless plan.

 

“Keelah… I thought it was going to blow up in your face.” She admitted, a very pleased red-suited marine smugly tilted his helmet.

 

“That’s the problem with you technical types ma’am.” Kal explained, giving the weapon a loving pat. “No faith in things.”

 

Tali allowed herself a smirk, working a clever comeback up in her mind when she saw her friend’s barrier flicker. Kal stiffened up, seeing the same thing. The horrifying realisation came too late; a jet of red mist escaped the marine’s right leg, just below the waist. He cried out in pain, barely stopped from collapsing as Tali caught him. With her arms around him, she carried Kal into cover as another whistling crack rang out. Riah was crouched down beside them, but the other marine toppled over, a smoking hole through his visor. Trapped in the middle of the street, with an intersection at both ends, the squad of three had no choice but to hold position. Tali hadn’t spotted the shooter, but she knew it was already reporting their position.

 

Soon enough her fears were realised when the patrol ship swung around the building at the far intersection. Lazily coasting toward them, the wasp-like ship fired its cannons onto the street, plasma blasts punching craters all around them. Tali covered Kal with her body, her functional shields deflecting shrapnel. Between the two of them, there was just barely enough room within her barrier’s envelope. She had to close her eyes and suffer through the cries Riah made. The medic’s own shields had burned out hours ago, and the tiny metal shards bit deeply into the poor woman’s suit. Between the deafening explosions and her friend’s wails, Tali’s heart was pounding. Her brain was caught between a flood of adrenaline and the all-consuming urge to sleep.

 

When the bombardment abated, she clambered off Kal. Despite the wound in his leg, she’d at least protected him. Looking over the blackened cover, she saw the gift the patrol ship had left them: Another platoon of geth troopers, two more primes… and a colossus. The towering, four-legged walking tank was already stomping toward them, puncturing the road with its pointed feet. She looked to Riah. The medic didn’t even try to tend her wounds. Her whole suit had been peppered by debris; red blood trickling from ruptures. The two women looked at each other for a moment, the finality of their situation crystalizing.

 

This was it… they were going to die here.

 

With a groan of pain, Kal forced himself up to his feet. He didn’t speak, he just pointed to a spot behind them. Sure enough, just a couple dozen meters away was a substantial mess of debris. Some of the old building had completely given way; the wreckage left behind was twice as thick as the cover around them now. Tali and Riah nodded in affirmative. The engineer held him steady while the medic shouldered her rifle and drew the geth’s attention. Tali didn’t look back, she simply put one foot after the other, holding Kal up and keeping him going. The gunfire behind them was relentless, and the occasional ping of bullets against her barrier caused a momentary flare of terror, but she didn’t stop moving.

 

After what felt like an eternity in the open, the two quarians collapsed down inside the ruins. Kal had dropped his rifle, but his free hand had clung to the rocket launcher. The moment of calm was enough for Tali to notice Riah hadn’t joined them. On the edge of panic, she peered around the corner to find the medic. Nearly twenty meters away, the woman hadn’t moved from her position. Instead she was still firing blindly from cover. During the fight she’d cut down six of the enemy troopers, but the two primes had been advancing mercilessly. Tali yelled out, hoping her warning would carry over the din.

 

Riah looked over at her a final time before the closest prime drove its clawed hand into her gut. Tali sank to her knees, watching helplessly as blood poured from her friend’s body. Riah didn’t scream, or go limp. Instead, she roared something right into the giant machine’s vacant face. An instant later, the two of them disappeared in a cloud of dust. Seeing the woman who had saved Hal’s life all those months ago die in front of her eyes, it didn’t feel real. None of this was supposed to happen. Tali stumbled back into cover, barely acknowledging Kal’s concerned look.

 

This whole mission, it was meant to be just a distraction. A final bit of goodwill on her part to Father and the Fleet. The young engineer had spent her time thinking up what she’d say to the crew when she finally departed on the Citadel. Joining Shepard, that was her mission. Now, that wasn’t going to happen. She was going to die here, terrified and alone, watching as her last friend was cut down before the geth finished her off. Deep in the darkest parts of her mind, she wondered if her father would even care? Would there be some ceremony, or would she just be filed away in a casualty list?

 

…She was so tired.

 

Bullets chipped away at the thick walls, while plasma shots shook dust from the long-neglected ruins. The geth ground forces had stopped their advance, troopers and the remaining prime standing aside. The colossus had moved up, firing its cannon at the building. Above them, the geth patrol ship changed its position time and again, no doubt searching for an angle. Plasma rained down from above, shaking dust from the rubble. Tali tried hopelessly to aim her pistol. It felt like it weighed a ton. Try as she might, she couldn’t even eject the thermal clip. She recalled the warning on her visor; perhaps she’d been a fool not to heed it.

 

By now whatever benefit the stimulants had offered were completely gone. Tali could barely move; her body weighed down by sheer exhaustion. She struggled just to slide her still working weapons over to Kal. At first he looked surprised, but his eyes narrowed in realisation. He picked up her pistol, firing back at the geth while she watched. The world around her began to swim and slow, blackness creeping into the corners of her vision. The last thoughts clinging to her conscious mind were of guilt. Kal would die awake, fighting. These evil things would murder him, right in front of her. And once again, she’d be powerless to stop it.

 

The flash of plasma chased the red-suited marine back behind cover; he took the moment to look at her. She wanted to tell him how sorry she was, that he… all of them, deserved better than this. A shadow loomed overhead; the geth ship manoeuvred for a direct strike. Summoning what strength she had left, Tali forced herself up to her feet. Slowly, she dragged Kal away from the entrance, desperately searching for somewhere to weather the incoming fire. She looked up at the ship; it was a hideous thing, the kind of monster that had haunted her childhood nightmares. She could see the cannons glowing as it prepared to fire. Not knowing what else to do, she pressed herself against her friend, vainly hoping her barrier might protect them.

 

From out of nowhere, a volley of electric explosions slammed the patrol ship. It’s kinetic barriers flickered and fizzled before overloading. The geth reacted immediately, turning their attention skyward. She watched as the insect-like vessel banked as hard as it could, trying desperately to return fire. The sun drenched sky boomed with thunder, and a hypersonic slug stabbed clean through the ship. The enemy faltered, wavering in the air as its drive core tried to compensate for the damage. There was barely a moment to react before a second shot punched through the hull. The two quarians looked on in shock as the seemingly insurmountable foe dropped from the air, shaking the ground with its impact before resting in a pile of rubble, lifeless.

 

A new ship swooped down from above, a shimmering flash of black and white. Cresting on the edge of awareness, Tali could just barely make out what was happening. Their winged saviour made a slow pass above them, for a moment she thought it was the Nualli. But this ship was almost twice as big. What gunfire the geth could return deflected harmlessly off its shields. In a moment it was gone, now a smaller shuttle hovered overhead. A white Kodiak, she racked her brain to make the connection. Most of the battle outside was obscured, but she could see the shuttle’s doors open and rockets being fired down into the enemy. The colossus launched a deadly plasma round up at the unarmed transport, the blast collided with a powerful biotic barrier. More rockets, followed by an explosion from the walker’s direction. The geth were in complete disarray, the young engineer had never felt such palpable relief.

 

That changed when the last prime entered their small refuge. The enormous geth platform had lost its weapon, but it could easily kill them both with its bare hands. Kal couldn’t stand, but he shouldered her shotgun anyway. He pulled the trigger again and again, unloading the entire clip into the hulking machine. Its barriers took the hit, barely slowing the threat down. In a last-ditch effort to stop it, Kal emptied her pistol into it. Nothing. The battle outside was still raging, a miracle that came a moment too late. The prime stalked forward, closing the distance toward them. There was a flash; a brilliant blue light blinded them. The two quarians were thrown back by the blast, crashing into the wall behind them. The synthetic monster was dead, ripped in half by the sheer force of impact. Dazed and losing consciousness, Tali looked up to see someone standing over her. A suit of armour, and a voice she cherished hearing again. She felt her rescuer's arms around her. Tali closed her eyes, tears sliding down her cheeks. She weakly leaned her helmet against the armour over her rescuer's breasts.

 

That was all she had left, everything faded to black.
