Chapter 11: Something Familiar

The lights of the Captain’s cabin had been dimmed. The typically well-lit room was decorated with soft shadows, the blue glow of the empty aquarium filtering in from the far side of the space. In the subdued atmosphere Shepard felt at least somewhat calm. It had taken some time to stop her hands from shaking. Seated on the corner couch, she ran a finger along the leather. It had been damaged, cracked from the fits and starts of her biotics. She didn’t care really; it could be replaced. But along with the bloody dents on the bedside wall, it was just another reminder of how little control she had. Looking over to the bed, she watched Tali’s chest rise and fall. She’d been sleeping for the past few hours now, without incident. With the med-bay occupied for sterile surgery, and none of the sleeper pods calibrated for quarians, Shepard hadn’t known what else to do. Tali needed rest, somewhere safe.

 

The scene on Haestrom had been a nightmare. Even after the geth had been subdued, the carnage of their battle with the quarians was evident everywhere her team had looked. One particularly gruesome spot left little more than a stain of blood and ash, the pieces of a geth prime mixed in with scraps of environment suit. Finding Tali and her friend nestled away in the rubble, both of them slumped down against the cold stone, she’d nearly given up hope. To come all this way… only to find her friend’s body.

 

Shepard had to stop herself from dwelling on it. Tali was alive, and now she was safe. The shuttle ride back had offered the chance for Shepard to piece everything together. The red-suited marine, Reegar, had explained most of what happened. The mission they’d been on, the geth attack and how all of them had been running on stims to the point of complete exhaustion. Cradling her unconscious friend in her arms, it’d been hard to accept Tali was going to be okay. Hearing a confirmation from Chakwas had been the permission she needed to finally take a breath. Garrus had offered to set up a sleeper pod for Tali, and in the meantime Shepard wanted somewhere her friend could have some privacy.

 

She’d spent the first hour or so just decompressing. Unwilling to leave Tali alone, Shepard had fought against the growing discomfort her damaged hard-suit was inflicting on her. After confirming with EDI for a second time that everything was normal with Tali, the urge to get out of her blackened armour won out. She was thankful for the noise reduction quality of modern materials, allowing her to take a short shower without worrying about waking her friend. Spending hours in a set of comfortable fatigues was a far easier task. Feeling undeniably better after the hot water, Shepard settled in properly. Her attention was never far from her friend, ready in case she woke up.

 

One surprising thing that helped her relax was the subtle sound of snoring. At first it had been almost imperceptible, just barely standing out against the beeps and whirs of the ship. But once she noticed, it was unmistakable. Shepard had looked over to confirm her suspicion, suppressing an unexpected snort when she saw the chin-light of Tali’s mask flickering in time with the sound. Clearly it was loud enough for the suit. It was soft and pleasant, mixed with soft lilting murmurs. Beyond the humour of it, hearing her friend snoring away while she slept put the woman at ease: Something normal amidst the constant uncertainty.

 

Shepard leaned back against the couch. She hadn’t really noticed the time going by, but everything definitely felt a little heavier. Some small part of her felt guilty for being absent so long. She wasn’t the only one who fought down there; the others deserved a debriefing. Jacob and Zaeed had been right on the enemy colossus when the shuttle doors opened. She wasn’t sure if the Cerberus agent enjoyed the old merc’s impromptu teaching during a battle, but Zaeed had been happy to give it nonetheless. Garrus had been the top-class sniper Shepard knew him to be. Putting his new viper model to good use, most of the remaining troopers and heavies had been “scoped and dropped” before the others had finished cleaning up the walker.

 

Despite her hesitation, and sharp tongue, Miranda had once again proven herself invaluable. The geth had improved their colossi’s shields in the years Shepard had been gone, and the damn thing managed to get a shot off while the shuttle was manoeuvring. They’d all have died without her powerful barrier. Reegar deserved a mention too. Even after being shot up and dazed from Shepard’s charge into the prime, he’d immediately raised his weapon, ready to defend Tali. They certainly built them tough in the Migrant Fleet Marines. The commander made a mental note to shake the man’s hand once he was out of surgery.

 

Whatever tiredness tugging at her eyelids vanished when Shepard heard Tali stir. She was wide-awake, up from the couch and by the bedside as her friend’s shining eyes opened. For a moment Tali laid there, letting out a groan as she collected her thoughts. Then as the unfamiliar surrounding became apparent, she jerked up from the bed, confused and panicking. Her breathing quickened as she looked around the room frantically, trying to connect her last moments of awareness with the strange new place. Finally her eyes caught Shepard’s as the commander sat down beside her.

 

“Tali, it’s okay.” Shepard put her hands on Tali’s shoulders, steadying her. Tali stared at her, her eyes wide.

 

“…Shepard?” She said Shepard’s name, her voice shaky.

 

All at once the events on Haestrom flooded back. Fear and pain and rage surged up after hours of exhaustion and adrenaline had held them in. They strangled out any words she could muster. Her body rocked with heaving breaths, stifled sobs escaping through the mask. Tali fell into her friend’s arms, clinging to her. Shepard held her close, staying strong through the retching and crying. She’d seen the bodies, the friends who’d been taken from Tali. That kind of horror was impossible to just push through. Dark voices circled at the edges of her mind; once again she’d been too late. If she’d arrived just hours earlier, her closest friend might have been spared the life-changing scars that she carried.

 

But the jeering was stamped out as soon as it appeared. She wouldn’t allow poisonous thoughts to distract her… not now. Whatever insecurities lingered inside, Tali needed her friend. Shepard ran a reassuring hand down Tali’s back, squeezing when her shaking body betrayed her control. Nothing could take away from the pain she felt, Shepard knew that better than anyone. But it wasn’t about that. The warmth in her embrace, the strength to hold her up, these were just reminders…

 

…That she wasn’t alone.

 

For a long time the two remained curled up on the bed together. Shepard helped Tali through every ragged breath, until finally she began to steady again. Doing her best to clear up a sniffle, she looked up at Shepard. Nothing was said; the two of them simply held each other’s gaze. They had both been here before, and Shepard knew, instinctively, what she needed.

 

Embracing arms slowly fell away, but the two friends didn’t separate. The closeness was reassuring, a comfort Tali sorely wanted. Finding her voice again, she worked up the courage to ask the question that had plagued her since waking.

 

“Did… anyone else make it?”

 

The quarian nearly fainted when Shepard nodded in response.

 

“Reegar’s down in the med-bay. Chakwas is working on him.” She was glad to give Tali the good news. “Your ship got out unscathed, we’re docked together in the Tassrah system.”

 

“Keelah.” Tali let out the word in a laboured breath. “I thought that…” Her eyes were on Shepard’s again. “Thank you, Shepard.”

 

“I’m just glad your okay.” Shepard gave her a smile. “When I found you lying there, I nearly had a-”

 

“A heart attack?” Tali finished the thought.

 

“Yeah…” She nodded. “…Exactly.”

 

In spite of everything, Tali chuckled. Caught up in the moment, she shook her helmet and pulled Shepard in for another hug.

 

“I missed you.” She said warmly, a smile on her face. Caught off guard the commander closed her eyes, swallowing the sudden lump in her throat. She put her arms around Tali, resting her chin on her helmet.

 

“I missed you too.”

 

The moment came and went, with lingering hands returning and the awareness of the here and now reasserting itself. Shepard watched as Tali inspected the room, wincing to herself when her friend caught the blood on the wall. Tali turned back to face her before Shepard could hide the expression, and whatever question she had was never uttered. Instead, she looked past Shepard to the upper tier. Her eyes wandered over the empty display case and fish tank, a flash of confusion glinted back at the commander.

 

“Where are we?” She asked, unsure how else to word the question. Before Shepard could answer a voice chimed in.

 

“This is the Commanding Officer’s quarters. You are aboard the CSV Normandy SR-2.”

 

Shepard pursed her lips, blowing a sigh through her nostrils. Not ten minutes together before the cat was out of the bag.

 

“CSV?” Tali asked for clarification, thankfully not realising what the feminine voice belonged to.

 

“Cerberus Space Vehicle.”

 

“What?” Tali looked at her friend expectantly.

 

“Thank you EDI. That’ll be all.” Shepard dismissed the AI, the mood inside the cabin completely shifting. Tali made enough room between them to cross her legs, and arms. Her eyes had narrowed, getting an uncomfortable twinge from Shepard.

 

“We’ve got some things to talk about.” Shepard began, locking her fingers together.

 

“Yes, we do.” Tali bit off the end of Shepard’s sentence sharply. “Why don’t we start with why you’re captaining a Cerberus Normandy?”

 

Shepard pinched the bridge of her nose, steeling herself.

 

“After Freedom’s Progress, Cerberus asked me to lead a mission to destroy the Collectors.”

 

“And you accepted, after everything we saw them do?”

 

“I’m running low on options, Tali!” Shepard snapped back. “Tens of thousands of people abducted, remember?”

 

“Shepard, you can’t trust them! They attacked the Migrant Fleet, killed families, children!”

 

Shepard held up a hand, ending her friend’s rant. “I don’t trust them.” She lowered her voice again, inching closer to her. “But right now, they’ve given me a ship, a crew, and they’re bankrolling this mission. I’m sorry, but I can’t sit and wait while entire colonies go missing.”

 

Tali’s eyes dropped from Shepard’s. She grumbled something under her breath, shifting her weight on the bed.

 

“Cerberus is the only reason I found you, too.” Shepard added, getting her attention again. “Without their intel… I don’t know what would’ve happened.”

 

Tali didn’t say anything; she just sat there. After a long minute, she drew in a deep breath before expelling it. Her gaze softened when she looked Shepard in the eyes again.

 

“I’m sorry… for yelling” She relaxed her posture. “It’s just, after what they did to the Idenna… it’s hard to hear this.”

 

“I know.” Shepard nodded in agreement. “But…” She leaned in closer. “This is my ship. Cerberus or not I won’t let anything like that happen here. I’d kill them if they tried.”

 

“All by yourself?” Tali asked, forcing a lighter tone. Shepard smiled at her.

 

“I could use a little backup.” She admitted.

 

“I’ll loan you a grenade.” She offered, following her commander off the bed. Shepard chuckled as the two of them headed for the elevator. Before they entered Tali stopped her.

 

“I’m not here for them.” She stated plainly, making no effort to hide her contempt. “But… I’m here for you.” She spoke with the warmth she always had.

 

“There’s no one else I’d rather have with me.” Shepard held out her hand, feeling Tali’s strength as she took it.

 

“Welcome aboard.”

 

The elevator ride down to the crew deck was swift. The two of them had barely stepped inside before the doors opened again. Tali didn’t say anything, but Shepard knew her well enough to sense she was impressed. Shepard pondered how quickly the elevators moved on Tali’s home ship while the quarian looked around the large room. It hadn’t struck her just how much larger this Normandy was compared to the original. Calculations were already starting in her head as she took it all in. Rounding the corner towards the med-bay, Shepard kept a straight face to not give the game away. Tali’s observant eyes scrutinized every inch of the crew deck before the sight of a very familiar turian caught them.

 

“Garrus!” She burst out as she loped over to him: Quick as ever she’d cleared the distance between them, just barley giving her other old friend time to brace himself. Getting his stance just right, Garrus took the brunt of the chirpy impact. Less used to the touchy-feely aspects of interaction than other species, he gingerly patted the hugging quarian’s back.

 

“Good to see you Tali.” He rumbled. “Been a while.” The young engineer pulled back, her tone changing from friendly to accusatory.

 

“You never answer your messages!” She reprimanded him, pointing a long finger. “Two years since I last heard from you, and you… Keelah, are you alright?” Whatever tirade she had planned fizzled as she looked at the new scars he had, concern back in her voice.

 

“Took a rocket to the face.” Garrus answered jokingly. “You should see the other guy.”

 

“Does it…” Tali unconsciously traced the side of her visor with gloved fingers. “Does it hurt?”

 

“A little.” The turian admitted, keeping his tone jovial. “Would’ve been a lot worse, if it weren’t for her.” He gave a nod back to Shepard, Tali’s gaze following.

 

“Should’ve guessed you were involved.” She said dryly.

 

“I think it’s an improvement.” Shepard retorted.

 

Tali’s eyes bulged in her mask; Shepard could almost see her mouth agape in shocked distaste. Garrus let out a chuckle behind her, his sharp blue eyes shooting back an unsaid insult.

 

“Keelah…” She shook her helmeted head.

 

Together, the trio gathered outside the med-bay. The doors were still sealed, but Mordin had already left. The doctor was in the middle of a conversation with her patient when she noticed them outside. With a quick tap of the control panel, the bio-security measures deactivated and the doors opened. For the second time that day, Tali’s eyes lit up.

 

“Doctor Chakwas!” Unlike her turian friend, the mature human woman eagerly returned her embrace, radiating motherly charm effortlessly.

 

“Tali, hello dear.” Karin’s English accent tickled the quarian’s ears. “How’re you feeling?”

 

“I’m alright, thank you.” The engineer answered the question bashfully, as she always had with Chakwas.

 

“Glad to hear it. You had us worried when Shepard brought you in.”

 

“I didn’t mean to worry anyone, it was a long… wait, what do you mean brought me in?”

 

“Oh yes.” Karin clarified. “The commander carried you all the way up from the shuttle bay like a lost lamb. Barely set you down a moment for my scans before you were in her arms again.”

 

Tali turned back to Shepard. “Really?”

 

She let out an affirmative cough and a nod, not quite able to meet Tali’s eyes. Glancing past Tali, she locked her gaze with the doctor. For the briefest of moments, Chakwas flashed her a wry smile. Tali moved past them to see the red-suited marine on the surgery bed.

 

“Ma’am.” He managed through lingering grogginess. “You’re up on your feet again.”

 

“Kal’Reegar.” She said warmly, moving to his bedside. “You’re okay.”

 

“A little disoriented still.” Kal joked. “But the hole’s plugged. Thanks again doc.” He gave Chakwas a thumbs-up.

 

“You’re welcome, as long as you follow my medical recommendation.” Karin replied sternly.

 

“That’d be bed rest.” Kal explained. ““Still got infection to deal with. Combat seals clamped down but there were fragments left inside. Cleared out now, but… well you know how it goes.”

 

“I do.” Tali gave a sympathetic tilt of her helmet.

 

“Don’t worry yourself Ma’am. Had a salarian in here earlier. Talked so fast my translator only caught half of what he told me, but the gist of it was the meds should keep the symptoms mild until the fever passes.”

 

“That’s great news!” Tali said, relieved. For a moment the two quarians didn’t say anything, but Tali shifted on her toes. “Kal… about…”

 

“Tali.” He said firmly, sitting up in the bed. “I don’t want you beating yourself up over what happened back there, okay?” Kal leaned in a little, lowering his voice. “You wanted to help your friend, right?”

 

She nodded.

 

“Then don’t feel bad about staying. You did right by the Fleet, and your men. I’m proud to have served with you.”

 

“…Thanks, Kal.” Tali said, doing her best to hide the tremor in her voice.

 

“C’mon.” He have her a pat on the shoulder, his voice loud enough for the whole room. “Time for me to get out of the humans’ hair. It’s hair, right?” He asked the doctor, happy to get a chuckle out of her. “Vakarian, could I borrow you again?”

 

“Sure thing.” Garrus took a few long strides over to the now upright quarian marine.

 

Supporting the injured man, the two of them slowly walked out of the med-bay and toward the main elevator, with Tali and Shepard following close behind. It was a squeeze, but all four eventually found some room before they were whisked up one deck. Whatever joke Garrus had been thinking of regarding his height troubles had thankfully taken longer than the trip. Two quarians and a turian were a sight to see for the all-human crew on the combat deck. Everyone in the CIC turned to watch. Most had gotten used to seeing Garrus around the ship, but a pair of quarians was a rare thing. The stares dampened Tali’s mood, whatever joy she normally got from exploring a new starship, was ruined by having a dozen Cerberus uniforms ogling her. She moved closer to Shepard, nervously shifting on her toes as she walked. Once they’d passed the main room, the short walk up to the bridge was more relaxing. There were only a couple of crewmen working at the consoles, and two familiar voices echoed down from the pilot’s console. Angling to get a view, she spotted both Meeko and Joker, chatting away like old friends. The quarian pilot caught the splash of purple in her peripheral vision, turning to greet them.

 

“Good to see you on your feet sir.” Meeko addressed the red-suited marine.

 

“All thanks to her.” Kal pointed over to the fast closing engineer.

 

“I’ll just bet.” Meeko mused, scooping up the younger woman up in a hug. “ Geth didn’t even ruffle your suit, did they Ma’am?”

 

“I was so worried.” Tali said into her shoulder. “When Shepard told me you made it…”

 

“I had the easy part of the mission.” Meeko said calmly. “It’s just a good thing Captain Shepard found us all when she did, along with this human’s fancy flying.” The mature woman shot Joker a glowing wink.

 

“It’s all in the reflexes.” Joker smugly replied, tipping his SR-2 cap to her. “Oh, hi Joker, great to see you. Not a day went by where I didn’t worry about you.” He bellyached, finally catching Tali’s attention.

 

“It is great to see you.” The engineer confirmed, threatening a hug. “Thanks for the rescue.”

 

“Ah, don’t worry about it.” Joker dismissively waved his hand. “I’m just glad you survived Shepard’s cabin.” He jabbed with a grin. Before the commander could reprimand him, Meeko strode up to greet the woman.

 

“Nice to see you again, Captain Shepard.” She raised a hand in greeting.

 

“My apologies for Joker.” Shepard replied, side-eyeing the bearded pilot. Husky laughter filled the bridge.

 

“Under all the fur, he’s not so bad.” She offered in his defence. “Never thought we’d get our asses saved by a Cerberus ship.”

 

“With the Normandy, you can consider it a logo and a paint job. Any ship I command is a friend to the quarian people.” Shepard assured her.

 

“That’s a relief, cause she’s a monster.” Meeko theatrically wiped sweat from her visor.

 

By now some of the quarian crewmen had come over from the Nualli. Two of them took Kal from Garrus, another one waiting patiently with a duffle bag in his hands. The red-suited marine waved Meeko over, signalling it was time to depart. Before they left however, Kal had his aides straighten him up in front of the commander.

 

“Never been any good at this kinda thing, but thanks, Shepard. You saved our lives down there, I can see why Tali talks about you the way she does.” Kal offered his hand in the human gesture.

 

“You’re welcome, Reegar.” The commander shook it firmly. Kal gave the bag-carrying crewman a nod, the quarian handing it over to Tali. At first she seemed confused.

 

“Just your personals, Ma’am. We threw in some suit patches and MREs too, should last until you get to the Citadel.”

 

“Thanks Kal… for everything.” Tali waved him goodbye.

 

“Fly safe, both of you. Keelah Se’lai.”

 

The other quarians echoed Kal’s blessing, before heading through the airlock with him. Standing together, the three old friends watched them go, remaining on the bridge until they felt the subtle jolt of the Nualli undocking. Tali moved to the window, looking out at the ship she’d spent the past eight months aboard fly off into the black.

 

“Keelah Se’lai.” She said back, her visor against the glass.

 

Shepard and Garrus stood next to each other, the hole filled by their quarian companion left open. She felt the turian’s eyes on her, checking to see if she was feeling that same twinge of pain. She glanced over for a moment, two sets of blue eyes meeting. It was all Garrus needed. Seeing Tali loiter there, looking on until the final vestiges of the Nualli were gone hurt more than she thought. Tali had a life, something that had taken time to rebuild. Now here Shepard was, asking to leave it all behind… again. Every part of her wanted so desperately for Tali to stay, but something deep inside protested. She should’ve let her go; back to the people she cared about. Even now that the decision was made for them, it didn’t make Shepard feel any better.

 

“So… where do you want me?” Tali’s voice captured her again. She pulled Shepard up out of that dark place, effortlessly as always. Shepard shared a sideways look with her turian friend before answering.

 

“I’ve got just the place.”

 

After a mushy goodbye from Joker, the trip back down to the CIC was mercifully less of a spectacle. Shepard still noticed Tali’s close proximity to her, along with the wary look in her friend’s eyes. It would’ve been silly to expect anything else. Tali had only been up for an hour; it would take some time to settle in. Aside from a few looks, everyone was polite: Mostly just nods or a quick hello to Shepard. Kelly Chambers was away from her station, midway between them and the elevator chatting to a crewmate. When she saw the new arrival, the redhead perked up.

 

She offered a friendly “welcome aboard” to the young engineer, who returned the greeting with a strained thank you. Given her field of expertise, it wasn’t surprising when Kelly turned up the friendliness in response, sidestepping the unease before excusing herself to her station. Having a shrink for an assistant would probably never stop being weird to Shepard, but she was glad for Kelly’s tact. It seemed to have some effect on Tali too, who relaxed a little. Just before they reached the elevator, the doors slid open to a figure in black and white, and Shepard’s heart sank. Miranda strutted out from the lift, done up in her officer’s cat suit. Her eyes were on Tali, comfortably ignoring both Shepard and Garrus.

 

“Tali’Zorah.” Her Australian accent sounded out the quarian’s name like an insect from a textbook. She offered her hand, daring the young engineer. “We haven’t been properly introduced.”

 

Shepard wasn’t sure if quarians had hackles, but she could feel Tali’s prick up with every word. Her glowing eyes narrowed to slits behind the purple mask, her posture stiffening.

 

“I remember you.” Tali spat. “You’re the Cerberus bitch who wanted to take Veetor away.” Her hands balled to fists as the dark haired woman retracted her offering.

 

“That’s right.” She confirmed, smirking. “Miranda Lawson, I’m Shepard’s second in command. Now, I’m not sure how things are done in the Migrant Fleet, but here you’ll be expected to follow orders.”

 

Tali’s eyes blazed with anger. “How dare y-”

 

“Alright, enough!” Shepard stepped forward, forcing Miranda back. “Lay off with the orientation, she’s not a kid.”

 

“Really?” She cocked an eyebrow. “Just how old is she?”

 

“Old enough to knock your teeth out, bosh’tet!” Tali snarled. Any chance for violence faded when Shepard gave her a pleading look.

 

“Let’s… just head down to engineering, okay?” Shepard asked, getting a snort from the quarian as she calmed again.

 

“Gladly.” She concurred, pushing past Miranda into the elevator. Garrus followed, giving the human woman a deadly glare as he went. Shepard soon joined them, her lips pursed as the Cerberus agent gave them a parting look. She hit the button for engineering, but Garrus tapped the crew deck. When the doors opened, the turian stepped out.

 

“I need a drink after that.” He groaned. “See you later.”

 

With an exchange of nods the doors closed again. The speed of the thing meant the awkward silence the two of them were stewing in was only brief. They headed along the small windowed hallway, around the corner and over the sub-deck platform. Loud talking was audible even behind the door. Shepard led Tali in, getting the attention of the two engineers already working down there. Cutting the conversation short, they turned to acknowledge the commander, pausing when they spotted the quarian with her.

 

“Oh.” Kenneth spoke first. “Hello there.” His Scottish accent was friendly.

 

“Ken, Gabby, I’d like to introduce you to your new chief engineer: This is Tali.” Shepard said proudly, noticing the slight shudder of embarrassment from her friend.

 

“And here I thought I was a shoo-in.” Ken responded, looking over at Gabby for comfort and getting a roll of her eyes I return. “Was it something I said?” He asked the commander playfully.

 

“Pure nepotism, I’m afraid.” Shepard assured them. “Tali’s one of the original Normandy crew, she knew the old girl inside and out.”

 

“Nice to meet you.” Tali spoke up, giving a bow of her head to the human engineers.

 

“You too, Tali.” Gabby gave her a smile. “Give us a minute to finish up these reports, and we’ll get you situated.”

 

“Thanks.”

 

Heading over to the console on the far side of the room, Shepard waited for a bit while her friend set up her computer. Ken and Gabby were already chatting again, not so quietly about the new arrival. Mostly it was just bickering over who would be the better tour guide. She was thankful for the ex-Alliance grease monkeys holding down the fort here. If any two people could help put Tali at ease, it would be them. Shepard took a step forward, leaning over the quarian’s shoulder as she looked at the T6 FBA couplings that had just been installed. Already she was bringing up diagnostics, checking for errors. Shepard could see her slipping away into the routine, so she gently touched Tali’s arm, getting the young woman’s attention.

 

“You want a little time to yourself? These two can handle the next couple hours if you wanna relax.”

 

Tali shook her head. “Thanks… but I’d rather get to work. Take my mind off things. See you after my shift?”

 

“Yeah… of course.” Shepard nodded. “I’ll leave you to it. Oh- but before I forget…” She fiddled with her Omni-tool, flicking a file from her holographic gauntlet to Tali’s. “Here, this’ll grant you access to my cabin. If you need anything, the door’s open.” She smiled.

 

“Romantic.” The quarian joked. Shepard rolled her eyes.

 

“That’s exactly what Garrus said.” She grumbled. “It’s what I get for special treatment.” Tali giggled; the sound was just loud enough for the two of them.

 

“It’s good to be back.” She said sweetly, giving Shepard a nudge with her shoulder.

 

Saying their goodbyes, Shepard left her friend to her work. The door barely closed before the excited re-introductions began to echo as the three technicians got better acquainted. She caught Zaeed skulking back to his room, the grizzled veteran stopping when he spotted the commander enter. Shepard thanked the older man, getting a gravelly acknowledgement for her troubles. Taking what she could get from the merc, Shepard settled into the elevator, tapping the crew deck. She grinned to herself, the thought of Zaeed and Wrex trying to one-up each other in the bat-shit crazy department. Shepard hoped the old krogan was doing okay; at least he was back home on Tuchanka. Maybe once the mission was over, she’d stop by and visit. Then again, maybe she could convince the Illusive Man Wrex was another “non-negotiable” part of the deal. She could certainly use a krogan for a fight like this. The doors opened to a thankfully quiet crew deck, no trouble in sight. Shepard decided she’d join her turian friend in the lounge.

 

After everything that had happened, she could use a drink.
