Chapter 12: A Grim Reminder

The orange glow of a holographic alarm clock stung Shepard’s bloodshot eyes. Forcing them to focus, she read the numbers that curled around the designer projection, the slight morphing effect digging into her. 01:00, shift time. The Normandy, like most starships, didn’t use any particular planet for its timekeeping. Outside of larger, more general increments like days, months and years, the self-contained environment along with the subtle time distortion of FTL travel meant keeping to any time zone was pointless. Instead, the ship ran on shifts: 06:00 to 20:00, or six in the morning till eight in the evening were the standard aboard most Alliance ships, with Cerberus being no different. Not every job could be wrapped up in that timeframe, and there were plenty of things that required round-the-clock attention. Anything beyond 00:00, or midnight was considered a graveyard shift. By now most of the crew were in bed, with only a handful manning their stations in flight-ops, engineering or other critical systems. Despite a command position, Shepard had a solid five hours left of bunk time before waking up.

 

She rolled onto her back, looking up at the ceiling. The subtle sheen of glass was visible against the metal shutter that rested behind it, sealing away the view of space. She hadn’t opened that shutter since her first day aboard. The sight of the cold vacuum still caused the air to catch in her throat. Maybe that’s why she hadn’t joined Tali over by the bridge windows, been close while she said goodbye to that life she’d been building up for so long. Maybe she was just looking for the easy answer. Shepard screwed her eyes shut, feeling the gritty discomfort of dry lids rubbing against them. She dug her thumb and forefinger into the bridge of her nose, stimulating her tear ducts. She didn’t understand. It had only been a few hours ago that she’d been right here, relieved beyond words to have her close friend in her arms again. It had felt like a miracle. After all the death her team had waded through, there Tali was, unharmed. Even after Tali had woken up, when the pain and the loss had come up like bile, it was a blessing. Hearing her voice again, seeing that familiar glow in her eyes, the two of them had beaten the odds and reunited.

 

So why did she feel like this?

 

Shepard struggled to remember the dream that had roused her from sleep. Most of the previous day was there, but it certainly got harder to recall after she’d joined Garrus for a drink. They’d talked for a bit, airing frustrations about Cerberus, Miranda, the shitty situation they found themselves in. She’d chuckled at the turian’s bad jokes, his theories about what exactly was missing from the woman’s love life to make her such a bitch. It’d all been easy stuff to swallow. Once the griping and complaining had run its course, the conversation had mostly been about having Tali back, how things were shaping up to be just like old times. She remembered smiling at the thought of it, two years apart and it was like they’d never left each other’s side. More drinking, more stories. Stupid things no one else would understand. Hearing the thunk of a quarian’s foot against the hull of the mako, with a screaming tirade of insults following close behind. Getting snow in between turian faceplates. Teasing Liara, arguments with Ash, the bottles slowly emptied to the endless chorus of reminiscing. One story led to the next, and by the time the beers ran dry and the memories were exhausted, Garrus had given her a pat on the shoulder and left. Shepard hadn’t realised it at the time, but the turian hadn’t spoken about anything he’d done since the Normandy attack. They must’ve spent two hours together, and still neither had spoken a word about what happened on Omega. What seemed like a comfortable trip down memory lane then, felt considerably less warm now.

 

Tali never did join them. Shepard felt like an asshole for noticing, but she had. Ever since their goodbyes in engineering, she hadn’t seen Tali once. It wasn’t fair to focus on that, Shepard knew it wasn’t. What Tali must have seen down on that desolate planet… it wasn’t the kind of thing a hug can fix. Shepard knew it was ridiculous to expect her to be the same pilgrim girl she was two years ago. It was good enough that things had worked out, that she was alive. And yet, here she was in the middle of the night, feeling that familiar sense of longing. Wanting to hear that chirpy laugh, the sassy comebacks and witty diatribes: The third member of their odd little trio, ever since they’d met on the Citadel. Shepard shifted up, leaning her bare back against the headboard, the quilt covering her breasts. What the hell was she doing? It had barely been a day.

 

Looking down past the ruffled quilt, she noticed the sweat stain on the mattress. Try as she might, she couldn’t piece the damn dream together. One minute she’d settled down in bed, finished with her reports. Then she was someplace warm, with dry wind blowing across an open space. There was salt in the air, and the kiss of sunlight on her skin. Everything was calm, still. Thinking about it now, the sensations reminded her of home. Mindoir was colder than Earth, but the air was often dry because of it. Sitting up on top of a pre-fab house, looking out over a geometric field. Crops planted by machines, tended by machines. Most times it’d been early morning, ironically cold and damp: But high up, above everything else. That’s what she’d felt in the dream. That she was somewhere high, looking out over an endless expanse. The few places she’d been on Earth matched one or two facets of the half-recalled landscape, but none fully embodied the scene: Salt water, high cliffs, heat and wind. Whatever her mind had conjured had been pleasant… at first.

 

But soon enough, things began to shift. The air disappeared, hissing away through cracks in the world. Warmth became searing heat, the rich sunlight blazing white down on her. Her skin sizzled under it. There were sounds, voices, things poking and prodding. The harder she tried to picture it, the further from focus it went. Soon only the pain lingered in her mind: A biting, clawing, slicing pain. Skin and muscle opened up, peeled and pulled aside: The feeling of… something, violating the mortal barrier of flesh. Shepard pushed the covers back, trying not to focus on how the dampness continued down to her feet. She tried to remember if this nightmare had cropped up before. The other nights aboard the Normandy had seemed fine. The thought exercise got a momentary tremor out of her. She realised she couldn’t actually recall those first nights. Everything else was there, from tedious run-arounds, to missions and the rare times spent with friends or colleagues. But everything past that, it was just gone. The realisation disconcerted her. More than that, it angered her: Just another reminder of her new, altered state

 

Painfully aware she wasn’t getting back to sleep anytime soon, Shepard forced herself up and out of bed. She’d have to get a handle on this. Her line of work wasn’t too lenient on people who didn’t get proper sleep. She ran a hand across her dry, sore throat. A drink was as good an excuse as any. Bending down to pick up the discarded pieces of her Cerberus uniform, the commander pulled her old clothes back on. Leaving her boots behind, she padded silently on grey socks across the cabin before getting into the elevator. She needed some water, just to soothe the discomfort. A chance to get some air sounded good too, if you could do such a thing aboard a starship. The crew deck was quiet and empty when Shepard stepped out. The door to main quarters was closed, but loud snoring carried past it regardless. Gardner probably.

 

Turning the corner into the mess hall, she walked over to the fridge. Slipping a cup under the water dispenser, she stole a look over to the sleeper pods that lined the raised tier leading to the forward cannon. Only a few were in use, the glass panels having fogged over to offer the occupants some privacy. The particularly large one belonged to Garrus; at least he was getting some sleep. Shepard’s gaze shifted over to the pod beside it. Occupied as well. She felt both happy and sad, followed by a pang of guilt. It was a childish wish, but she’d hoped to catch Tali out here, sitting alone at the table. Just the two of them, whiling away the wee hours together, like old times. She finished the glass and shook the memory from her mind. She should be grateful Tali was sleeping… she was.

 

Setting the cup inside the dishwasher, she decided it was best not to hang around. Heading back toward the elevator, something made the woman pause. She turned, looking down past the dividing wall to Miranda’s office. The light on the door was green; Miranda was still up. Tired and sore, Shepard felt frustration already building up inside her. She decided then and there, that enough was enough. No matter Miranda’s position, she wouldn’t be repeating her earlier behaviour again. Shepard padded towards the door, tapping the hologram. It opened to reveal the dark-haired woman hunched over her desk. This was the second time she’d seen Miranda without the façade she so effortlessly carried at all other times. No makeup, no black and white bodysuit. The comfortable clothes she wore were all black again, no Cerberus logos this time. Her hair was messy, but not like before. Instead of being perfectly coiffed or tied back in a ponytail, it hung wildly around her features. Bedraggled like this, her look brought back chilling memories of the Project Lazarus videos. Shepard had barely come through the door before Miranda’s blue eyes were on her.

 

“Yes?” Miranda asked, perfectly neutral in tone. It only grated Shepard more.

 

“We need to talk.” Shepard said calmly, but leaving no room for argument.

 

“Alright.” She nodded to the chair in front of her. “Have a seat.”

 

“Just stop.” Shepard didn’t mask her annoyance. She leaned her hands on Miranda’s desk, looking down at her.

 

“What kind of game are you playing?” She asked, gripping the metal. “Do you get off on undermining my authority, harassing my crew?”

 

“I’m not the one playing games, Shepard.” She answered her curtly, holding Shepard’s gaze.

 

“Then what the hell was that stunt in the CIC? Tali’s barely on her feet an hour, and the first thing you do is insult her?”

 

“She shouldn’t even be here.”

 

The comment took Shepard aback.

 

“Excuse me?” She kept her voice down, despite the soundproofed walls.

 

“I looked at the dossiers.” Miranda clarified, her lip curling. “Tali’Zorah’s not on there. Mordin, Archangel, Jack, Okeer, Zaeed, Kasumi. They’re who we’re out here to retrieve.” She leaned forward, her eyes glinting. “Which means you risked this ship and it’s crew, for personal reasons.”

 

“Tali’s the best engineer I’ve ever met.” Shepard retorted. “She optimised the original Normandy so completely the Alliance techs needed her notes to do repairs.” Her rant started before she could stop it. “She was shoulder-to-shoulder with me at the Citadel. If it weren’t for her, the first we’d have known about the Reapers would’ve been when they surged into our galaxy.” Enraged, she slammed a hand down on the desktop. “Show some god damn respect!”

 

“Christ…” Miranda said to herself. “That was two years ago, Shepard.”

 

“I don’t care how long it’s been! She’s an invaluable asset to this team, and you will-”

 

“Is she?” Miranda cut in. “A traumatised quarian who hates Cerberus. Who would gladly kill all of us given the chance? We have no idea what the long-term effects of her trauma might be. Your friend could be a time bomb, and you’ve got her working down near the drive core, in control of all critical systems.”

 

“You’re insane.” Shepard bit back, shaking her head in disbelief. “Why don’t you just admit it? You don’t want a quarian on this ship.”

 

Her implication got a flash of anger from the woman.

 

“That’s what this is, isn’t it? You’d turn away the best technician in the galaxy, someone I can trust, because you’re some party-line, Cerberus xenophobe.”

 

Shepard wanted her to try something: To summon her biotics, to get up from her chair and prove Shepard right. Instead, she sat there. Shepard watched her swallow down the bile in her mouth before she responded.

 

“Maybe I just don’t think the cost was worth it?”

 

“What the hell are you talking about?” Shepard asked, feeling something crawl up her spine when Miranda scoffed.

 

“You don’t know, do you?” Miranda’s mirthless smile flashed for a moment, more for herself than Shepard. She looked away for a moment, palpable disgust on her face. When she locked eyes with Shepard again, she was deadly serious.

 

“Ferris Fields is gone.”

 

In an instant, whatever fire Shepard had in her belly was smothered. Her eyes widened, the realisation setting in like ice in her veins. She stepped back from Miranda’s desk, leaning against the wall. Her eyes were on the ground, just trying to process what she’d heard.

 

“When?” She finally asked.

 

“Eighteen hours ago, we picked up the news-burst just after getting back.” Miranda stated, her own anger still present. “Of course, you were in your cabin the whole time.”

 

Shepard didn’t say anything.

 

“Seven thousand people lived on that colony. Families, kids.” The awful implications even gave her pause. “It’s in the Terminus, no Alliance support. It’s not even that far from Omega, we could’ve gotten there with just an hour’s warning.” Her face screwed up as she looked at Shepard.

 

“Wanna take a guess where we were instead?”

 

“That’s not…” Shepard started, but the horror of the situation pressed down on the words. “…Nobody could’ve predicted that.”

 

“Cold comfort now.” Miranda continued. “You want to know why I was up on deck two? Hadley, from flight-ops: His brother was stationed there. While you were strutting around the CIC with your damsel, he was holding back tears at his workstation. I was coming to check on him.”

 

“…I didn’t know.” Shepard admitted, a pit in her gut.

 

“Of course not.” Miranda snapped. “We’re all just Cerberus to you: terrorists, not people. How do you think it makes your crew feel, knowing Commander Shepard doesn’t didn’t even bother to read their personnel files?”

 

The woman’s cruel assertion bit into her. Shepard felt that familiar flash of anger burning under her skin. She wanted to fight, even if the outcome was like before. Just to shut Miranda up, to stamp out this constant thorn in her side. What the fuck did Miranda know about her? Miranda had spent every second since they’d met assuming the worst, prodding Shepard to prove her theory correct…

 

…Was she correct?

 

Shepard sat down in the chair, taking a calming breath before continuing. “I’m sorry.” She said, squeezing out any remaining anger. “I should’ve kept myself informed. Is there anything we can do for him?”

 

Miranda’s face softened, her accusatory glare falling away while she considered the question.

 

“He didn’t want to take time off aboard. I’ve arranged shore leave for him when we reach the Citadel.”

 

“Okay.” Shepard nodded in agreement. “Extend it to the whole crew. Give them a few hours to relax, call home if they need to.”

 

“Alright.” Miranda tapped at her console, updating the crew roster. For a while the two of them just sat in the uneasy air, fiery tempers forced to burn in silence. It was while Shepard was sitting there, in her Cerberus XOs uncomfortable office chair that she noticed something. Shepard could see the veins on Miranda’s forehead, the tell tale signs of apprehension and stress. She saw the bags under her eyes, barely pronounced, and unnoticeable without the time to really study them. How long had Miranda been up?

 

“Miranda…” Shepard broke the silence first, just in time to see her hackles rise.

 

“What are you doing here, Shepard?” She asked, her cool tone completely absent.

 

“The Illusive Man poured all his resources into this mission, into you, because he believes the Collector threat is that important. But instead of focusing on it, you’re treating it like a distraction.”

 

Her eyes widened in expectation, the agitation written on her face.

 

“Is that what this mission is to you, an inconvenience?”

 

“That’s not fair, Miranda.” Shepard kept her tone level.

 

“What exactly was the plan if a geth fleet had showed up? We would’ve been pinned down in a hostile system, with no backup and no way to communicate. You had us charge in there, half-stocked with almost no intel, to do what, save one of your old friends? We all could’ve been killed!”

 

“Don’t beat me over the head with what-ifs!” She retorted, feeling her control slipping. “We found Tali, and we made it back fine.”

 

“And that’s wonderful Shepard… for you.” She conceded. “But in the meantime, thousands of people were taken.”

 

The commander was quiet for a long time. She rested her head in her hands, taking in the gravity of Miranda’s insinuation. Distracted as she was, she didn’t notice Miranda’s hands were trembling, or the subtle shake in her voice.

 

“Are you saying I should’ve let her die, on the off chance the colony might have been saved?”

 

“Yes.” Miranda answered immediately, her face twisted in angry disbelief.

 

She could feel it again, that hard, metallic claw scraping along her skull. A sensation so sharp, so discomforting it caused her to physically rub the back of her head. She could feel a cold hand, gripping down around her intestines, fingers curling around her lungs. That all encompassing weight that pinned her to the spot. Somewhere deep in the recesses of her memories, Shepard’s memories, she could sense that grasping presence. It’d been with her on Virmire, when she’d heard Ash’s voice that last time. Then again, standing in the burning halls of the Citadel Tower. With just a few words, she’d sent hundreds of Alliance crewmen to their deaths. It had stalked her since Elysium, Akuze, Torfan. Now it was here again, branding her conscience with the names of seven thousand innocents. When Shepard looked up at Miranda, she saw a woman few had ever had: Someone hidden beneath all that Cerberus armour: Someone who, for all her skills and accomplishments, had never fought a war.

 

“That’s not your call to make…” Shepard said simply, watching the emotions roil silently behind her eyes. “…It’s mine.”

 

For the first time since they’d met, Miranda didn’t say anything. Maybe it was the shock from hearing Shepard’s answer, or something worse, but no retaliation came.

 

“This is my ship. We bring on, who I say we bring on. If you have concerns, we’ll talk about them. But the second-guessing, undermining my authority, attacking my teammates. It stops now. Understood?” Shepard looked at her, awaiting an answer.

 

She had that same look in her eye, the one she’d given Shepard on Freedom’s Progress.

 

“Understood.” Miranda finally relented, giving her a mechanical nod.

 

“Good.” She said, releasing her subordinate. Glancing around the office, she got up from the chair. “When we arrive at the Citadel, I want you to make sure we’re properly stocked for dextro food and medicines. We’ll need quarian-safe prep kits, and a procurement beacon for the Normandy.”

 

“I’ll see to it.” Miranda agreed, adding the info to her console.

 

“We’ll also need to set up the cargo bay to accommodate a gym.” Her addition caught the woman’s attention.

 

“Shepard, your training only requires a few pieces of gear.” She seemed puzzled.

 

“We’re going to expand on it. Enough machines for the crew shifts.” Shepard’s suggestion had Miranda considering while she looked at the holographic screen. “Besides, it’ll be good for stress release. Give everyone something to do outside of work, keep their minds focused.”

 

“And the space issue?”

 

“I saved the galaxy before with a ship half this size.” Shepard said with a small smile. “I’m sure we can find the room.”

 

“I’ll… make it work.” She gave Shepard a frustrated parting nod. Content at what little progress had been made, the commander tapped the door’s hologram. Stepping out into the dimly lit main area, she paused. She turned, and the words just came out.

 

“We’ll stop them, Miranda.”

 

The dark-haired woman looked at her, but didn’t say anything. Instead, their gazes held for a moment before the automatic door closed again. Hearing it with her own ears, spoken into the open air, the words didn’t carry the certainty she wanted them to. Her brave assertion sounded like a lie. Like something a child tells herself before delving into a dark basement. One last bit of courage, before the truth forces its way in. Shepard walked out into the mess hall, heading back to the elevator. The further she got from the argument they’d had, from the conflict and the tenuous agreement it had born, the worse she felt. She had saved the galaxy before… yet this time, things felt different: A bigger ship, a bigger crew, and more freedom to accomplish the mission. But the bulkheads felt colder here, the bones of something dead, twisted and refashioned to imitate a previous victory: Just a copy.

 

Just a copy…

 

She looked back down the deck, past the tables and up the stairs to the raised tier. Tali was still asleep. Shepard waited for a moment, resting her arm against the wall. The seconds drifted away, a toll to be payed tomorrow. Still air and ambient noise lulled the woman, time standing still. Everything had seemed so right, just a few hours ago. Her friend was alive, safe again. A promise had been kept, something to drive her feet forward. It only occurred to Shepard then, how little had existed beyond that goal. It had come and gone, and nothing had changed…maybe everything had changed.

 

The door to the cabin hissed open. Sitting down on the steps to the lower tier, the commander was left to truly consider what had happened, without the combative satisfaction of an argument to blunt the meaning. What if Ferris Fields had gotten a distress call out: One final attempt to forestall the horrors awaiting them at the hands of those monsters. She could almost see it, some poor technician scrambling to find the last open channels. Barely managing to cry out for aid before the radio fizzled static back at them. Did they spend those last minutes hoping, praying an allied ship would descend from the sky to save them? Did that hope still linger, even when their helpless body was locked away inside one of those coffins?

 

It didn’t matter now. No help came. Seven thousand people, gone… sacrificed.

 

Shepard looked up at the bloody dents on the wall. Blue and crimson flecked across the smooth surface, her friend’s life, dripping from her hands. It had been almost impossible to process when it happened: The real, true fear that she might lose someone so important to her. Now she’d nearly lost them both. And even in that most wonderful of victories, hearing their voices again after two years of blurry nonexistence, there had still been a price to pay. How many more people would be taken: Thousands, tens of thousands? Children ripped from their parents, their last moments together a desperate struggle to hold on. Then bound, locked away and taken somewhere beyond their worst nightmares. She knew the depths of cruelty that awaited people like that. The extents of pain and humiliation a person’s mind thinks unknowable. But the Collectors… the Reapers? She couldn’t even imagine what horrors they were inflicting. Something deep and primal told her whatever they found at the end of all this, would be worse than anything she’d seen before.

 

She couldn’t let it happen again…

 

…She wouldn’t.

 

“EDI?” She called out into the empty room.

 

“Yes Shepard?” The synthesised voice responded.

 

“I want to talk about the damage to the back wall.”

 

“There are small impact deformities, with turian and human blood contamination. Shall I log a refurbishment order with Mess Sergeant Gardner?”

 

“I want it left alone.”

 

“Of course Shepard.” The AI paused for a moment. “…May I ask why?”

 

The question surprised her. Coming from a thinking machine, maybe it shouldn’t have. It was probing, looking for information. Spying for the Illusive Man perhaps, or sating it’s own cold curiosity. The thought made her shudder. As if Cerberus, or the Collectors weren’t enough. They had something just as dangerous hiding behind the med-bay. An illegal AI aboard a terrorist frigate, Shepard knew she was playing with fire. Worse than that, she hadn’t even mentioned it to Tali. The damn thing had given her the perfect opportunity for some honesty with the person she trusted most, and she’d said nothing.

 

Shepard’s fingers followed the wall’s smooth surface, tracing over the damage she'd done. Her hands still ached from it. There had been a certainty that day, a terrible certainty that she was going to lose someone. Was that why she’d told Garrus the truth, as a reward for defying the odds? If Shepard had spared her friend the pain and disfigurement he was living with now, would she have ever told him? Or was it easier to put on a smile. To laugh and joke and nod along with memories that weren’t even hers. To pretend to be the woman they knew two years ago. The woman Garrus respected, that Tali respected.

 

The woman they deserved.

 

“No.” She finally answered it. The machine’s presence faded from the room, and she was alone again.
