Chapter 13: Prodigal Daughter

The Normandy made its final approach toward the Citadel. Even at a distance, the sheer size of the station was jaw dropping. Stretching out from the nebula in which it was nestled, the structure was nearly forty-five kilometres long, a collection of five enormous ward arms splaying out from a central ring, giving the whole thing an appearance of a budding flower. At nearly thirteen kilometres in diameter, the space between the wards was immense, with plenty of room for thousands of ships to come and go with little risk of collision. The imposing size of the place was backed up by hundreds of warships in close orbit. Though the flagship of the Citadel Fleet: the Destiny Ascension was absent, there was nowhere a ship could travel that didn’t have it in range of Alliance or Turian guns.

 

As the Cerberus frigate descended toward one of the massive wards, everything seemed to shift. What had been the coherent shape of a space station just moments before, gave way to a sprawling cityscape, with hundreds of towers jutting up from the inner side of the ward arm. From the window, the ward took on its own horizon, with inhabitants below looking up to see their sister wards in the skies above, each one curving into the next. Looking toward the dividing line between station and sky, the view was dominated by the central ring of the Presidium, the core structure of the Citadel that held the whole thing together. The Normandy had been routed to Zakera Ward, with traffic control taking over for the docking sequence. The sleek, swooping ship gently coasted down into her berth, coming to a stop when the bay’s magnetic clamps locked the frigate in place.

 

Emerging from the boarding bridge into the bay, Shepard couldn’t help but pause. It was so surreal, being back here. Just down the way she could hear the hustle and bustle of passengers disembarking and heading off to their destinations. The lights glowed brightly and the finish along the platform was clean and maintained. When she looked out past the protective barrier, she could see countless ships, lazily travelling back and forth across the station. She could still remember the heat of the fires, the acrid smell of smoke: Bullet holes and blood staining the walls. For her it had only been a few weeks ago… it really had been two years. So much had been fixed; from here the damage wasn’t even noticeable: Saren and the geth, Sovereign’s attack, it all felt like a bad dream.

 

Soon Garrus and Tali joined her, looking out at the breathtaking view. Neither of them said anything, but the turian on her right leaned forward on the platform’s railing, narrowing his eyes. His mandibles rhythmically pressed against his face, contracting flush before relaxing again. Shepard could see the tension in him, something unspoken. Tali stood to Shepard’s left, putting the commander between her and Garrus. Her glowing gaze held a similar sense of disbelief, mirroring Shepard’s. Taking in the sight, she gingerly touched her hands together. There was a moment, brief and fleeting when Shepard wanted to break the silence. To make a pithy remark about how things had been fixed, or how much time had passed. Beneath that, she just wanted to hear them speak. Something to spark their voices, to bring a sense of routine to a place the three of them had stood many times before. But the time came and went, and as if of one mind the three of them pulled away from the vista and walked toward the terminal. Heading in past the tourist trap stores and security checkpoints, they could see the public skycar lot when a salarian approached them.

 

“Commander Shepard?” He asked, his voice carrying the typically nasal, expectant tone of most salarians. He wore a suit of combat armour, black and silver contrasting against his green-grey skin.

 

“Yes?” Shepard saw no point in lying, it was only a matter of time before she was recognised. At her confirmation the tall alien’s large eyes glinted with approval.

 

“I’m Kello Tarva, I work for the Citadel.” He introduced himself politely. “When your ship was flagged on approach, I was sent to escort you to the Presidium.”

 

“I see.” Shepard already knew where this was going, though she was thankful to save the time getting there. “I’m guessing the council wants to see me?”

 

“Precisely, Commander. I received the order from councillor Anderson himself.” Kello nodded.

 

After everything that’d happened, Shepard had almost forgotten about the old man. The information caught her a little off guard, but it was a pleasant feeling nonetheless.

 

“No time to waste then.” Shepard asserted, getting a smile from the salarian.

 

“My thoughts exactly.”

 

Before long the four of them had left the docking bay, speeding over the buildings in a private skycar. Shepard sat in the front with Kello, who was mostly monitoring the vehicles autopilot: Behind them sat Garrus and Tali, both doing their best not to look uncomfortable. Thanks to the translucent canopy, the aerial view of the Citadel was unobstructed, with the three friends each taking the opportunity to look out the window. The small shuttle travelled seamlessly through the empty vacuum above the towers, the ride only interrupted by the slightest of bumps as it changed course towards the Presidium. Watching the endless city beneath suddenly give way to empty space was exhilarating, as if they’d travelled off the edge of the world. Soon enough the skycar closed in on the Presidium itself. Slipping inside through another kinetic barrier, it began to race along an endless curving landscape. For a woman who’d grown up looking at a flat, planetary horizon, Shepard still found the architecture mind-bending. Just a few dozen meters above them was a false sky, complete with clouds and calming blue. Beneath them, a series of lakes, each one rising up toward the next, the two shades of blue mixing at the furthest point. Her experience was only dulled when something else caught her attention: A hint of purple in the canopy’s reflective glass. A pair of shining eyes, looking out at the view, but not seeing it. Her helmet’s chin propped up on her elbow, Tali was far away. As the skycar slowly hovered down onto the landing pad, the thought began to eat away at Shepard. Neither of her friends had breathed a word since they’d arrived.

 

Following Kello up a familiar flight of stairs, Shepard realised they were heading to the old human embassy building. Everything had be redone of course, the former Volus and Elcor room had been relocated, with an office put in there now. The whole place was livelier, with people slotting past the trio headed for one room or another. But gone were the other species, no asari or turians to be seen anywhere. Instead of just one office, now it seemed the whole building had been converted for human use. Finally the small group came to a stop outside the Councillor’s door, a door that once belonged to Udina. Kello tapped his Omni-tool to the hologram, flashing the orange to green. He then gave the commander a warm nod, and left without another word.

 

Taking a breath, Shepard stepped through into the place her whole adventure had begun two years ago. Garrus and Tali followed close behind, seemingly struck with a similar sense of recognition. The room itself had barely changed; there was a holographic comms console to her right, and a public news terminal to her left. The décor was tasteful and minimal; indoor plants and fine art. The desk at the far side of the room was large, with photo frames posed near the computer and a drinking cup resting in a well-formed coffee ring. An old, dark-skinned man sat at the desk. Dressed in blue finery, but with a crew cut still tying him to his previous line of work. Deep brown eyes looked up from the orange screen, filling with awe as they took in the presence before them.

 

“Jane…” Anderson’s gravelly voice held the commander stock still. The councillor was up from his desk, shock and relief on his lined features as he crossed the room. Shepard couldn’t move, she could only watch as the man who had saved her life, the man she owed everything to, put his arms around her. The commander could only stand there, feeling that reassuring strength again. There were no words, no tears, only the breath caught in her lungs.

 

“God damn it girl…” The old man chided, barely more than a whisper. “…You’re alive.”

 

Almost subconsciously, Shepard returned the embrace. Waves of feeling crashed against her, relief, shame, guilt, joy. She wanted to tell him everything, to try and explain what had happened, where she’d been. But at the same time, she couldn’t say a word. Nothing came out. It was only when her mentor finally released her, pulling back a step to look her in the eye, that she was able to respond.

 

“Sir… I…” She didn’t know where to begin. Anderson put a hand on her shoulder.

 

“It’s alright Shepard. There’ll be time for it… but not now.”

 

“…Yes sir.” The commander could see that spark of kinship in Anderson’s eyes. Someone who had always understood her, no matter the circumstances.

 

“When I heard the rumours from Omega, I could barely believe it.” The councillor glanced back toward his desk. “But seeing that ship again, I knew it was you.” His attention shifted to Garrus and Tali, who’d both simply stood and watched the whole thing. “Mister Vakarian, Miss Zorah, good to see you still keeping an eye on the commander.” He addressed them with calming warmth in his voice.

 

“It’s a full time job, councillor.” Garrus matched the man’s tone, giving a bow of his head. Tali copied the turian’s gesture, but kept silent. Instead, she locked eyes with the former captain, silently echoing his joy and relief at Shepard’s survival.

 

“Don’t get me wrong, Anderson. It’s… great to see you.” Shepard assured her mentor. “But I get the feeling you wanted to me here officially, sir?”

 

“Not just him, Commander.” The rumbling reverb of a turian voice interrupted them. The four of them turned to see the holographic projections of the other Councillors shimmer to life before them. A flicker of frustration crossed Anderson’s eyes. Even after two years, Sparatus, Tevos and Valern still held their positions as the turian, asari and salarian representatives.

 

“We’ve heard rumours surrounding your survival, Commander Shepard.” Valern spoke up. “Some of them are… unsettling.”

 

“And confirmed, judging by your arrival in a Cerberus frigate.” Sparatus added sharply.

 

“It was agreed that we should contact you the moment we were able Commander.” Tevos said, her tone notably gentler than her colleagues. “Given your history of service, we wanted to give you the opportunity to explain things.”

 

“I appreciate it, councillors.” Shepard kept the diplomacy. “I was critically injured during the attack on the original Normandy. I woke up in a Cerberus hospital station a little over a week ago. In return for saving my life, they’ve asked for my help in stopping the abductions of human colonies in the Terminus Systems.”

 

“So you admit it?” Sparatus jabbed. “You are working with Cerberus, voluntarily.”

 

“To deal with this threat, yes.” Shepard confirmed, ignoring the old turian’s needling. “However, I would be more than willing to cooperate with you in a joint investigation. The colonists need protection, more than I can offer alone.”

 

“Your colonists knew the risks when they left Council space!” Sparatus fired back. “It isn’t our responsibility if the humans reckless enough to go there suffer the consequences of their actions.”

 

“With respect, councillor.” Shepard retorted. “The threat is greater than you think: These abductions are being carried out by the Collectors. So far they’ve completely subdued every colony they’ve targeted. Tens of thousands of people have been taken.”

 

“We’ve received similar reports from STG.” Valern agreed. “However the Collectors are beyond our jurisdiction all the same. Any definitive action taken outside our borders could trigger a war with the Terminus Systems.”

 

“I appreciate the risks, but definitive action is needed. Our intel suggests that they’re working with the Reapers, like Saren and the geth were two years ago.” Shepard played her final card.

 

“Spirits…” Sparatus groaned. “Are we really revisiting this myth again?” Both Tevos and Valern looked to him with sympathy.

 

“Myth?” Shepard spoke up, incensed. “Sovereign attacked the Citadel!”

 

“We don’t need reminding, Shepard! Saren’s attack cost thousands of people their lives!” Sparatus bit back.

 

“Councillor.” Garrus spoke. “After the losses our fleet suffered, I don’t think we can ignore the Reaper threat, no matter how-”

 

“Keep your mouth shut, Vakarian!” Sparatus warned. “You’re actions have done enough to sully your family name already.” Garrus fell silent, his hands balled to fists.

 

“Shepard, do you have any evidence to support your assertion?” Valern asked. “We agree the Collectors have changed their tactics, but there is no clear connection to a greater threat.”

 

“If I may, councillors?” Tali’s voice drew surprise from the others. The three politicians focused on the quarian, making little effort to hide their distaste at her presence. Fiddling with her Omni-tool, she brought up a video. “This footage was taken eight months ago, during a raid on a batarian pirate vessel.”

 

The councillors watched as the enormous Collector ship approached the pirate frigate. They saw the Collectors greet the batarians, before taking the entranced human prisoners away in pods. They saw the strange artefact in the cargo bay, with one of the pirates nearby, worshipping it. When the video concluded, Tali spoke again.

 

“The object seen here is a Reaper artefact. When the pirates brought it aboard, their behaviour began to change.” She brought up the flight paths, showing in time-lapse as they shifted from typical patrols to targeting human colonies. “The artefact made them take humans, even if it meant getting rid of cargo and loot to fit them. Then it told them to travel into geth space, protecting them from discovery until they reached this system.”

 

She brought up the star maps, showing the flight path past her home world’s star system. “The pirates never travelled here before, nowhere in the logs is this system mentioned. This is where they met the Collectors.”

 

“All this demonstrates is that the Collectors were working with pirates to capture humans.” Valern noted. “There’s no way to verify what the object is.”

 

“It altered their behaviour.” Shepard backed up her friend. “My report from Virmire included a segment on indoctrination. That’s what you’re seeing here, Reaper indoctrination.”

 

“Is this what Cerberus has told you, Shepard?” Sparatus asked pointedly. “Are they feeding into this obsession of yours to gain your cooperation?”

 

“This isn’t about Cerberus!” Shepard snapped, temper flaring. “You refused to listen to me before, and we nearly lost everything because of it!”

 

“We will decide what this meeting is and isn’t about.” The old turian retorted; eyes fixed on Shepard.

 

“Sparatus is right, Commander.” Tevos agreed. “Regardless of your reasons, you are allied with Cerberus, a known terrorist organisation whose deplorable activities are detailed in your own reports from the Saren mission. Your vessel bears unmistakable similarities to the Normandy, would you care to explain that?”

 

“I don’t know how they built it.” Shepard admitted. “It was finished and space-worthy by the time I was awake.”

 

“A convenient excuse.” Sparatus noted. “Still, perhaps you are telling the truth. Maybe it wasn’t you who supplied the specifications… perhaps you had a colleague provide them for you?” He mused, glaring at Tali. “I am surprised to see your non-human allies working with Cerberus.”

 

“It’s called loyalty.” Garrus shot back at the older turian.

 

“This would be your first showing of it.” Sparatus answered.

 

“Enough!” Tevos silenced them both. “Commander Shepard, your answers have not been satisfactory. You are working with Cerberus, we cannot just ignore this.”

 

“So, what?” Shepard asked, frustrated. “You’re going to arrest me?”

 

“It’s one of several possibilities.” Sparatus said dangerously.

 

“That’s too far!” Anderson spoke, commanding the room. “Commander Shepard is a hero! She’s the only reason the three of you are still alive, and I damn well won’t let you lock her up on some witch hunt!”

 

“Nobody is suggesting that, Anderson.” Tevos assured him. “We haven’t forgotten Shepard’s actions, or the sacrifices of the Alliance.” She turned to the commander.

 

“That being said, we ask you to try and see things from our perspective. Saren’s alliance with the geth is still talked about to this day: A Spectre going rogue, using his powers to aid an enemy of the Citadel. Things are simply too fractured to allow that kind of thing to happen again.” She gave a quick look to the others. “I hope you understand. We take no pleasure in this.” On cue, the three of them tapped away at their consoles.

 

“Shepard as of now your status as a Spectre is revoked.” Valern announced. “All privileges afforded by the rank and position are null and void. Any attempts to circumvent this decision, or exploit bureaucratic oversights to use these privileges will be seen as an act of treason, and punished accordingly.”

 

Shepard held her nerve, even as the very last pieces of authority she had left were stripped from her.

 

“We wish you luck Commander, goodbye.” Tevos ended the call, and the three councillors flickered and vanished.

 

For a while nobody said anything. Shepard just stood there, fighting back the rage inside her. Anderson’s shoulders fell; he hung his head in frustration, muttering curses under his breath. By now, Garrus was done being quiet.

 

“How the hell can they be so blind?” He roared at the lifeless console. “A Reaper sat on top of their damn tower, and they still don’t lift a finger to help us!” The turian’s mandibles clicked against his face in anger.

 

“They’re politicians.” Anderson answered him. “They’ve spent too long cooped up here, away from the danger. It’s easier for them to accept the victory two years ago as proof there wasn’t a threat in the first place.” He leaned against his desk, pinching the bridge of his nose. “God damn them. We never agreed to do this.”

 

In between her friend’s anger and her mentor’s frustration, Shepard felt a gloved hand touch her arm. Tali had joined her, looking on at the wall where Shepard’s fate had been decided. She turned to Shepard, her eyes sharing the commander’s own feelings: The anger, the betrayal, and the smallest vestiges of despair. Between them, there wasn’t any confusion, or questions about why the council had done it: Just the brutal acceptance that it was done.

 

“Are you okay?” She asked, watching every minute detail to judge Shepard’s reaction. Shepard appreciated it, Tali being there with her. Her voice, her touch, it was calming in itself. Shepard could feel the anger receding, cooling into something rational, a problem to be solved. Buoyed by her friend, the commander stood a little taller. The dread was buried, along with the rage. It wouldn’t help them.

 

“Yeah… I’m okay.” She answered with a smile. “At least I don’t have to file two sets of reports now.” She returned the gesture, giving the quarian’s arm a soft squeeze. She saw the cheeks under Tali’s eyes raise, pushing them into glowing crescents. The brief instant dissipated, and Tali broke away as Anderson approached.

 

“I’m sorry, Shepard.” He said, looking over his old protégé. “We’d agreed… or at least I thought we’d agreed to something probationary.”

 

“Don’t worry, Anderson.” Shepard assured him. “I figured this would happen. All things considered it could’ve been a lot worse.” She got the reaction she hoped for, seeing the lines on her mentor’s face ease a little.

 

“You’re right.” The older man agreed. “At least this puts the rumours to bed. You’re back, and actually doing something about the threat to our colonies.”

 

“I don’t suppose you could bring me up to speed sir, about what’s happened the past two years?” The commander asked.

 

“Of course.” Anderson nodded. “If your friends are alright to wait in my office a few minutes?” He added, looking over to Tali and Garrus.

 

“We’d appreciate the break.” Garrus said back, forcing some levity into his voice.

 

The four of them headed over to the office balcony, taking in the sights of the rebuilt Presidium. Seeing it now, after two years, there was barely any indication of the battle that had been fought there. Shepard still felt that strange lightness in her gut, looking out at a world that had changed so much. The scars left behind were all but invisible. She scanned across the walkways and shopfronts until she spied the Conduit in the distance, still standing proudly in front of the Tower. She could almost see the flames again, the mangled corpse of the mako resting on its side. She looked away, back toward her mentor. Out under the artificial sunlight, the years she’d lost were present on the old man’s face. So much time fighting alone, knowing the truth about Sovereign. Shepard mustered up the courage to ask her first question, the one that hurt the most.

 

“What was the final count sir? How much of the Fifth did we lose?” She saw Anderson wince.

 

“Eight cruisers, total loss on every one.” His gravelly voice tinged with sorrow. “Final count was two thousand.”

 

“Jesus…” Shepard could still remember her exact words, giving that fateful order.

 

“As hard as it is to say, we got off lucky.” Anderson continued. “The turians lost thirty. The Ascension lost nearly a thousand crew herself.”

 

“How are we doing with rebuilding? The Citadel looks near finished.”

 

“It’s a work in progress here. Most of the wards are liveable again, although Tayseri is still struggling with power. The Presidium is complete, though I doubt that’s much of a surprise.” Anderson screwed up his nose. “Total restoration’s sitting around five years. Still, with the keepers we can never know for certain.”

 

“What about back home, sir?”

 

“That’s a different matter. We only lost eight ships but dozens of others were damaged fighting the geth. After the battle we had to garrison a fleet here, to protect the Citadel while the turians focused on rebuilding. They’ve mostly recovered now, but losing so many captains has taken its toll on us. Training new recruits, new commanding officers, it leaves gaps in our expertise and manpower. Not to mention we’re a council race now, so we’ve been building new ships on top of replacing the ones we lost. All in all it’s got us stretched a hell of a lot thinner than I’d like. Between the batarians, the geth and the crime in the Traverse, we’re completely tied down.”

 

“Nothing we can send to the colonies?”

 

Anderson pursed his lips, mulling over the question. “Hackett’s got an outreach program running, but Arcturus doesn’t want us provoking the Terminus any more than our colonies already are.” He grit his teeth. “It makes me sick even saying it. Sorry girl, I just don’t have the pull I used to.”

 

Shepard could only offer a sympathetic nod, watching as an elcor slowly made its way across one of the walkways down below them. She wanted to offer her mentor something, a plan of action she could promise. Knowing that all she had was a long shot with a laundry list of unknowns brought her own frustration into focus: Another uphill fight. But she was half Anderson’s age, and unlike the man who’d made her, she had freedom.

 

“You ever regret me picking you over Udina?” Shepard asked, half joking. Anderson blew out a sigh.

 

“Serving on the Citadel council wasn’t exactly how I saw spending my twilight years.” The old man admitted. “I know the others have their reasons, but… sometimes it feels like I’m beating my head against a wall.” He seemed to shrink a little, like he was buckling under the weight of it all. “Knowing the truth about Sovereign… it’s brutal… it’s nightmare stuff. Seeing that thing cut through our fleets, it’s hard to even imagine how we prepare for a threat like that.”

 

Standing up straight from the railing, he turned to Shepard. “But it’s like always, Jane. Do or die.”

 

“Do or die.” Shepard agreed. Seeing her mentor’s unbreakable spirit in tact brought a smile to her face. “Y’know, you could always come with me. Be my first officer, you’d be doing me a favour.” She said with a grin. Anderson chuckled, a sound that was much appreciated.

 

“I’m too old to go racing across the galaxy.” He admitted to the open air. “Much as I complain, I’ve got an important job here. It’s frustrating most of the time, but a lot of good’s come out of it as well.” He looked at the commander. “The front line… that’s got to be yours.”

 

A beeping notification interrupted the two of them. Anderson’s Omni-tool glowed on his arm, and he silently read a message. A frustrated murmur told Shepard everything she needed to know. “Sorry Shepard, I’m needed in person at the Tower. Look…” He gripped the younger woman’s shoulder. “Don’t worry about all this. The council, the Alliance… I’ll find some way to keep them off your back. Just, do me a favour and be careful.” His voice turned deadly serious. “You can’t trust Cerberus.”

 

Shepard scarcely had time to nod an affirmative before her old captain was out the door. The three of them were left alone. She turned back toward the balcony, expecting to see her friends there. Surprisingly, Garrus had moved away, leaning up against the wall inside on his Omni-tool. Shepard couldn’t remember hearing the two of them talking while she’d been with Anderson. Something in the back of her mind began to bristle. Here wasn’t the place, and now wasn’t the time, but she knew the both of them too well not to notice the uneasy distance. At first she wanted to bother the turian, but it was clear Garrus was in the middle of something. His reptilian blue eyes watched the small screen carefully; tapping out replies the instant they noticed a new message. Whoever it was, they had to be important: Family maybe, or a partner long distance?

 

The realisation hit the woman. She’d never even considered what she was pulling them away from. Just because she’d found them in life or death situations, didn’t mean the years they’d spent without her hadn’t happened. Shepard had no idea how to even broach the topic, deciding it was better to just leave her friend alone. Instead, she joined Tali at the balcony. Tali had remained there, looking out over the parks and the lake of the Presidium. Shepard sidled up beside her, taking a moment to glance the quarian’s eyes. She could see it again, that faraway look. For a moment Tali didn’t seem to notice her.

 

“Taking in the sights?” Shepard asked. Tali’s eyes flashed to her, then drifted away again. She’d done her best to hide it, but Shepard had seen the tremor in Tali’s body when she broke the silence.

 

“I was just… thinking.” She trailed off for a second, looking down at her hands. “This is near where we first met.”

 

“I remember.” Shepard nodded as she leaned beside her to share the view. “Me and Garrus had barely known each other five minutes before we busted into Chora’s Den… what was the bastard’s name?” She paused, puzzling to herself.

 

“Fist.” Tali answered, spitting out the word. “He spent our first meeting leering at me.”

 

Shepard felt her ears burning again. “Like those pricks were.” She shot a look back to the console. “I should’ve said something.”

 

“I’m glad you didn’t” She deflated a little “Maybe I shouldn’t have said anything.”

 

“Well, I’m glad you did… fucking council.” Shepard shook her head, getting a small giggle from Tali. The two of them remained quiet, enjoying the air of rebellion. But the longer the silence lasted, the more dour things seemed. Eventually Shepard broke it.

 

“You ever get déjà vu?” She asked. Tali gave her a tilt of her helmet.

 

“What?”

 

“Sorry, it’s a human saying. It means feeling like you’ve been somewhere before, or done something before.”

 

“Hmm… I don’t think so.” Her answer was followed by a look in Shepard’s direction. “Why, are you feeling… day-jah vooh now?”

 

Shepard smiled at her strained pronunciation. “Maybe a little. Being back here, with you and Garrus. It feels like we’re still trying to fix the same problem. Like Saren and the geth all over again.”

 

“Except this time the evil AI is on our ship.” Tali’s little joke caused the woman to stiffen.

 

“You… know about EDI.”

 

She nodded, causing Shepard’s head to fall. Shepard closed her eyes, pushing through the shame.

 

“… I’m sorry. I should’ve told you.” She turned to look at Tali, dreading the betrayal she’d find waiting in her eyes. Instead she saw a woman struggling through her own appeal to a friend.

 

“Shepard… I’m not here to cause trouble for you.” Her words were nearly a plea. “I don’t want that thing on your ship any more than I want Cerberus in control of it. But it’s like you said, we don’t have many options.”

 

“Still, you should be able to trust me.” Shepard chided herself, looking away. “I dragged you into this mess, it’s the least you deserve.”

 

“You didn’t “drag me” into anything.” She moved closer, getting Shepard’s eyes on her.

 

“And I do trust you. Always.”

 

Hearing just how much faith Tali still had in her, brought a flush to Shepard’s cheeks. So many things were still blurry, memories that only left faint impressions in her mind. But this feeling, it had endured. But like everything it seemed, there was the shadow of something worse just beyond: The uncomfortable truth that there was more to say, for Tali to know about her. Just like with Anderson, she didn’t even know where to start. She had to steer the conversation somewhere lighter. She needed more time.

 

“So… how exactly did you find out?” She asked, regretting the question when Tali rolled her shining eyes.

 

“I’m not an idiot, Shepard.” She said matter-of-factly. “You don’t need the kind of power the Normandy’s computer core was using to run a VI suite. After a little digging, I saw that every tracking beacon and monitoring device routed through that room as well, it didn’t seem like a leap to expect the worst from Cerberus. But just to be sure, I asked it.”

 

“And EDI just admitted it?”

 

“It was a relief, honestly. I ran through some logic puzzles with the thing, and figured out enough of its behaviour shackles to be… less worried. It can’t lie; when it couldn’t answer my questions it told me so. I don’t think it can control the ship either. I ran some tests from my console, none of the… scenarios, were stopped remotely.”

 

“What do you mean, scenarios?” Shepard asked, nervous.

 

“It’s probably best if you don’t know the details.” Tali assured her, wincing a little. Shepard gave a snort, pushing thoughts of core meltdown aside as a familiar presence loomed overhead.

 

“Sorry about that.” Garrus pointed to his gauntlet.

 

“Everything alright?” Shepard asked.

 

“Yeah.” The turian answered quickly. “Just… logistics, forms. Boring stuff.”

 

Here wasn’t the place, now wasn’t the time…

 

“We should probably get out of here then.” Shepard suggested, getting a nod from her friends. As they headed out of the office and back down the old embassy stairs, Garrus aired a question that had been nagging at him.

 

“You think that salarian’s still waiting for us?”

 

“I’m not looking forward to the taxi fare if he’s not.”
