Chapter 16: Escaping Purgatory

Everything was silent. All around the starry reaches of the cosmos stretched out in every direction. Tali relished the feeling of weightlessness, the subtle sense of vertigo as her gravity-dependant body was set completely free. It had been a long time since she’d taken a spacewalk; the effect was always strangely calming. Even with all that had happened, and the decidedly idle nature of their approach, her mind was clear. She tilted forward a little, using her momentum to lean her body forward. It felt good to be on a mission… focused.

 

To her right, the armoured turian sniper kept close, his military proficiency following her actions. The two of them looked out at their target, an enormous former agriculture ship. Even at a distance, the thing dominated their view. It shone a brilliant bone white in the sun, looking like the vast spinal column of some long-dead monster. Thirty different sections joined together like building blocks, each with a pair of radiator spines jutting out. Drawing ever closer, the sheer size of it was something to behold.

 

“You two okay out there?” Shepard’s voice chimed in through her helmet.

 

“A little disoriented.” Garrus answered. “I should’ve waited an hour after eating…” Tali shook her head, causing her body to spin slightly.

 

“We’re ready, Shepard.” She confirmed. Fiddling with her mobility unit, the quarian readjusted her position.

 

“Alright. Their fighter sweeps are clear, go.”

 

With the commander’s order, the mission was on. Lining up side-by-side, the sniper and engineer fired their thrusters. The hissing puffs of cold propellant escaped the intricate array of nozzles attached to their arms, legs and backs, giving them both speed and manoeuvrability. Keeping close together, Tali led the flight. Years of working outside in the Migrant Fleet had given her a wealth of experience in zero-gee travel: When to accelerate, how long to coast for and when to start your braking burn. She knew how to fly the longest distance with the least fuel, and more importantly how to avoid making yourself too obvious while doing it.

 

Luckily Garrus was no stranger to EVA boarding himself. A veteran with pirate raids under his belt, the turian had done a couple “breaking and entering” missions without the use of a shuttle. It was always a dangerous gamble, approaching a ship in just your spacesuit, but the trade off was that you were almost invisible while doing so. The Purgatory’s sensors were completely focused on the Normandy, and with such little heat compared to a starship, the two infiltrators slipped by without a second look.

 

The hull drew closer and closer, and Tali quickly threw her head back to somersault her body into position. Garrus followed suit, a little more clumsily. She counted down the seconds in her head, applying a little thrust from her mobility unit. She watched her HUD, keeping an eye as her speed ticked down from ten meters per second, to five meters per second, to one meter per second. Gently easing off the throttle, her thrusters gave one last little puff before her magnetised toe-boots connected with the prison ship’s exterior. She’d landed as gracefully as a butterfly on a flower petal. Garrus joined her seconds later, clunking down on his mag-boots with substantially less precision. Back on solid ground again, so to speak, the two friends took a moment to check their surroundings. Tali sent Chatika to scout above them, in “lights off” mode to avoid detection. The combat drone streamed a bird’s-eye view of the segment they were on.

 

“We in position?” Garrus asked, looking over the quarian’s shoulder. Tali grunted in acknowledgement as she appraised the map.

 

“Yes.” She finally concluded. “The access hatch is fifty meters that way.” She pointed out along the hull, past a pair of communication antennas.

 

“Alright. Let’s get moving.”

 

Now that the two of them were walking again, Tali let her friend take point. Garrus unfolded the M-97 rifle from his back, dialling in the scope. She pulled her carnifex, adjusting the core settings. Both weapons had been fitted with suppressors, until they had Jack with them, things had to stay under the radar. Carefully the pair made their way across the exterior, the feeling of being completely exposed always present in their minds. Speed was difficult, every step had to be taken carefully. Planting one foot after the other, the pace was a crawl. Luckily the other part of the plan was going to buy them time.

 

Both of them were patched in to the squad radio, listening as Shepard, Jacob and Miranda boarded the ship officially. The plan was simple: Cerberus would show up to make the purchase and escort Jack to the Normandy. With two agents by her side, the commander blended right in. Of course, both Garrus and Tali knew the woman well enough to be certain things wouldn’t go according to plan. The Purgatory was a private prison, run by the Blue Suns. Mercs with half a brain would try to double-cross whoever they could get away with, including anyone stupid enough to actually come aboard.

 

“Welcome to the Purgatory Shepard.” One of the turian guards addressed the main team. “Your package is being prepped, and you can claim it shortly. As this is a high-security vessel, you will have to leave your weapons with us.”

 

There were a tense few seconds of silence in her ear, before Shepard’s answer came.

 

“No problem.” She said with an easy tone. “Your ship, your rules.”

 

This had been expected. Tali knew it didn’t change the mission. After all, it wasn’t unintentional that the three people who went aboard unarmed just so happened to all be biotics. Still, she worried for Shepard. Having those terrorists watch her back made her skin crawl. Maybe she’d get lucky and they’d finally try something. The three of them could have a drink afterward and argue over who took off Miranda’s head first. Caught up in the thought, she bumped right into Garrus. He gripped her arm and pulled her down near the antenna, nearly making the engineer lose her footing.

 

“Two guards near the hatch.” He pointed out past the cover. Sure enough there they were, a pair of humans lazily swaying on their mag-boots. “I can take them out, but security’s going to know about it.”

 

“Give me a second.” Tali opened up her tool. Scrolling past a number of different hacks, she finally settled on something classic. A program she’d written a few months ago, specifically for spoofing Blue Suns system checks. Acquiring the two guards with her suit sensors, she sent the signal. Within moments the virus was uploaded, and they were cut off from inside. “Ready.” She gave the go ahead.

 

Leaning out just past the antenna, the turian sniper took aim. He braced himself, pushing into the cover while Tali held him steady. Blissfully unaware, the guards chatted and enjoyed the downtime. The quarian watched as her friend’s finger slipped down into the trigger guard, and squeezed. The shot was completely silent in vacuum, and the flash suppressor did away with any arcing from the weapon’s electromagnets. A sheared fragment of metal, no bigger than a marble, impacted the helmet of the furthest guard at relativistic speed.

 

The effect was immediate, the man went completely limp, rifle slipping from his hands as he dangled from his still magnetised boots. A puff of blood mist escaped behind him, expanding into a frozen cloud. The closer guard noticed the drifting weapon just in time to be hit by the second shot. Another cracked helmet, another cloud of frozen blood.

 

“Never saw me coming.” Garrus said quietly to himself, before giving Tali the nod to keep going.

 

After a few minutes of stealthy duck walking, they were at the hatch. The young woman was already hacking the door, trying her best to ignore the half-frozen corpses nearby. Clearly the Suns took their prison security more seriously than the typical military ops. She was already employing two scripts to lock down their number generators, and the system’s trace program was on her digital ass the moment she started acquiring nodes. But she wasn’t the resident tech whiz for nothing. With a flash of affirming green light, the airlock opened. After an awkward moment of decontamination and pressurisation, the inner door allowed them into the prison proper. Glad to be in an atmosphere again, Garrus opened his helmet’s visor.

 

“Ugh. I hate spacewalks.” He grumbled, looking for sympathy in Tali’s mask. “Always feels like I’m choking to death in this thing.”

 

“Yeah… can’t imagine what that’s like.” She said dryly, rolling her shining eyes at him.

 

Garrus didn’t really have lips, per say. But if she had to describe the way his semi-flexible beak pressed together at the realisation of his unintentional remark, it would be that he pursed them. She never would get tired of that expression. After months of teasing and nagging aboard the SR-1, Tali was happy to gain the upper hand every time she could.

 

Together the two of them pushed further into the ship. They were in a maintenance area, lots of tight hallways with side doors. The turian had swapped out his sniper rifle for something close-quarters, and the burst-fire assault rifle he shouldered was the perfect compromise between accuracy and firepower. The quarian on the other hand, she preferred the direct approach. Her semi-auto shotgun was a room clearing terror.

 

Both weapons were also suppressed, as much as they could be in such a closed-in environment. Keeping their presence minimal, the pair proceeded down the hall. With a quick tap of her Omni-tool, all the doors unlocked. One after another, they swept the rooms. All but two were empty. Tali heard the muffled chatter of her friend’s rifle at her back when the door opened to reveal a batarian in blue armour, eyes wide with shock. The reaction was instant. The shotgun let out a cough, spitting a cone of pellets into the merc. He fell back against the wall, his head all but gone from his shoulders.

 

Moving to clear the next set of rooms, Tali listened in on the conversation Shepard was having with the warden: A turian named Kuril. He was busy boasting about the security his floating prison enjoyed, relishing in how the inmates were truly trapped there. She’d never liked prisons to begin with, the months she’d spent alone on Pilgrimage, at the mercy of the galaxy’s many laws had shown the woman just how easy it was to be considered guilty, even if you’d done nothing wrong. But this place was a special kind of cruel. A private cage, run by bloodthirsty mercenaries, and surrounded by endless kilometres of deadly vacuum.

 

From time to time, Miranda or Jacob would chime in, making some trite observation or obvious commentary. She did her best to tune those two out whenever they spoke. After a tense bit of moralising from the two-bit extorter, the warden left Shepard to tend with something else. For a second she was worried. Maybe they’d tripped an alarm? Or they’d been spotted on approach. With the second hallway clear, she gave Garrus a tap on the shoulder. They had to hustle.

 

“How’s it looking guys?” Shepard’s voice came in low as she tried not to look suspicious.

 

“We’re inside Shepard.” Tali answered, looking around for her target. “Maintenance is clear, but no sign of… wait a minute.” Hopping over past some junk, she finally spotted it. “We’ve found it.”

 

Despite the out-dated schematics, luck had held for the infiltration team. Slotted into the wall was a computer access point. It was old, but the signal showed up on her Omni-tool. Digging around in her hip pouches, the quarian produced a small interface device. Wires and a transmitter tinkered into a sort of “bridge” for older systems. After flicking through a few different cable heads, she finally found the one. A few seconds after slotting it in, the data sync was ready.

 

“Hacking in now.”

 

Once again she was battling a more advanced security suite. Still mostly out of the box stuff, but someone on this ship clearly enjoyed coding in their spare time. Garrus kept watch, scanning down each of the three hallways that connected to the small hub room. Allowing her friend to do the worrying, the engineer let the flow state take her. Shining eyes scanned across endless lines of updates and attack programs. One by one she locked down the key randomisers, slowly encircling the main nodes. Setting simultaneous scripts, she started capturing one node after the other. It wasn’t long before the whole network detected an intrusion, and a warning flashed in her HUD. The trace program was hunting her down. The counterattack was starting to make the young woman sweat, when finally she found root access.

 

“Alright.” She announced with a sigh over the radio. “I’ve got control.”

 

“Of course you do.” Shepard buoyed her with the compliment. “Can you locate Jack?”

 

“Uh… yes! She’s being held in cryostasis.” Tali followed the map from her position. “Out and through main observation.”

 

“Can you two get there?”

 

“I think so. It doesn’t look too heavily guarded.” She noted.

 

“Good, cause I think the warden is walking us into a trap.”

 

Worming their way through the tight spaces of maintenance, Tali and Garrus emerged through a hatch just above main observation. From where they were crouched, there was a line of large industrial cryo machines. Each cell was sunken into the floor; it would have to be raised before the prisoner could be retrieved. The elevated angle also gave the pair a look into the observation walkway itself. Hanging from the ceiling of the facility, windowed corridors travelled the entire length of the ship, leading from one cellblock into the next. Down below, hundreds of modular cells were stacked on top of each other. A series of loading cranes were moving them back and forth, connecting them to exercise rooms, or showers. From what she could tell, all the communal areas were inaccessible without assistance from machines.

 

“There they are.” Garrus’ rumbling reverb drew her attention to the nearby walkway. Inside she could see the three humans, strolling toward a room labelled “out-processing”. She followed the large boxy structure to its end; a cell was waiting for them. By now the main team was flanked on all sides by guards. They were being escorted, whether they liked it or not.

 

“Shepard! There’s a cell on the far side of the out-processing room.” Tali warned. “We can’t cover you in there.”

 

“Thanks for the heads up.” She whispered back. “You still logged in to their systems?”

 

“Yes.”

 

“When I give the signal, you cut the lights. We’ll turn the tables on these bastards.”

 

“Okay, be careful.” She tensed up a little, readying her Omni-tool.

 

Bringing up the room cameras on her HUD, the engineer watched as the group made their way towards the far side. Sure enough, the door opened and warden Kuril came over the loudspeaker. At first he attempted to reason with them, using scummy businessman savvy to convince his captives to surrender. Shepard cut right to the chase, calling him a criminal, no different from everyone else in there. That must have pissed the turian off, because the next moment he was barking orders to restrain them. She watched the guards raise their weapons. Her fingers hovered over the tool, readying a localised power surge. The nearest merc took a step towards the commander, and that was it.

 

“Now.” She ordered.

 

Tali sent the hack. In an instant, the signal cut out from the camera feed. She stared at the static, hoping for some sign that the plan had gone smoothly, when suddenly the entire ship shook. The booming of explosions echoed from far away, somewhere near the stern. It wasn’t just the camera feed, suddenly all the lights flickered and died. Plunged into darkness, she turned to Garrus, who similarly had no idea what was happening. Only the glow of his visor showed the turian was there at all. A moment of silence passed, then the blaring of alarms sounded, and the large room filled with the ominous red glare of emergency lighting.

 

“What the hell did you do?” Garrus yelled over the din, somewhere between shocked and angry. Tali looked over the systems report, her eyes wide.

 

“Keelah, the main reactor’s in meltdown!” She shook her head in disbelief. “I-I don’t get it, it was just a local power surge.”

 

“You broke the ship?” He exclaimed.

 

“It was just a local power surge!” Tali repeated defensively. “It’s not my fault these bosh’tets don’t-”

 

The whole room shook again, more explosions… and gunfire. All around them cells began to open, responding to the emergency evacuation protocols they’d triggered. It wouldn’t be long before the whole cellblock was a war zone. Before the two could bicker any further, the door to out-processing exploded with blue light. Even at a distance, it was clear the biotic trio were fighting hard.

 

“We need to get down there!” Garrus got her attention, pointing toward the cryo-chambers.

 

“What about Shepard?” Tali asked, throwing a hand toward the battle.

 

“She can handle herself. But if something happens to Jack then this whole mission is over.” He gave her a stern look, dissipating any resistance she had left. “We need to get down there.”

 

Taking point, the scarred turian dropped down from the small catwalk the two had been perched on. Landing hard on a pipe not far below them, before half-sliding down one of the support struts, he finally came to a stop not far off the main floor. Meeting the end of his descent with a crash into a wall he’d vainly tried to avoid, a thought crossed Garrus’ mind.

 

He considered if just maybe, he really was getting too old for all the falling and running into shit. Turning back to check on Tali, his mood was not improved by the nimble and deft movements of the quarian. She’d followed him down step-for-step, and yet her soft, unarmored envirosuit didn’t even have a scratch. By the time she was crouched beside him, he was grateful she couldn’t read turian expressions.

 

The gunfire was getting closer. Tracer rounds flashed on the far side of the cavernous room. Tossing up between the vindicator and viper, he sided with the assault rifle. At least they could go loud now. After a quick scan, his visor was picking up several heat signatures in the distance: More prisoners than Suns for now. Plenty to keep the bastards busy at least. Reminding himself of the virtue of delayed gratification, the turian led his partner over to the cryo-cells.

 

Unfortunately the high view had obscured one little detail. The cells were walled off from each other. Which meant another delightful crawl through a maintenance tunnel. He was happy to let Tali lead the way. She followed the layout like it was second nature, something Garrus was very thankful for. So thankful in fact, that he spared the young woman a joke about just how she managed to fit into those places anymore, at least more than halfway. He let himself have a chuckle at that one.

 

The two infiltrators emerged into a small containment room. The door out was sealed, but luckily there was no real obstacle beyond just opening the thing. Keeping his head on a swivel, the turian trained his rifle on the observation window above them while Tali hacked the cell’s control systems. He glanced over his shoulder, stifling the question of “how much longer?”.

 

The quarian was in her element, working through the cryo-cell’s internal security protocols. She still did that thing, where she hummed to herself while she worked. Looking through his scope into the room above, Garrus elected to remain quiet. The last time he’d interrupted her while she was doing the humming thing… well two years hadn’t been enough to dull that painful memory.

 

“Got it.” Tali chirped, tapping at her Omni-tool. White vapour billowed up from tubes on the side of the cylindrical holding cell. With a hiss and whine from machinery, the whole thing raised up from the floor. Turning to watch for a moment, Garrus cocked his head in surprise when the mist finally cleared.

 

“That’s… Jack?” He aired his thought, getting little more than a surprised blink of his friend’s shining eyes.

 

Neither of them had been sure exactly what to expect when they opened the cell: A vilified prisoner, the worst of the worst: A biotic death machine that had earned herself a lifetime sealed away in cryostasis. Yet looking at her now, Jack just seemed like any other human. She was bald, the pale skin of her head and neck adorned with tattoos. A reddish-brown prison jumpsuit covered everything from the neck down, but the turian figured this human would be covered in the ink markings.

 

She was only slimly built, probably from Spirits knew how long in solitary. Narrowing his blue reptilian eyes, he could make out scars on her neck. Surgery scars, and not the kind done for helping people. His appraisal of the woman stopped short when her brown eyes blinked open in surprise. Looking around the room, Jack began to struggle with her restraints. The pair moved to help her, and she fell to her knees.

 

“W-who… the fuck are you?” She asked, her voice shaky from the cold. They glanced at each other for a moment.

 

“We’re here to get you off this ship.” Garrus said, offering his hand to the human.

 

“Get the fuck away from me!” She hissed, recoiling but still unsteady. “You two aint cons, and I’m sure as hell not going with-” Her rant was stopped dead by a moan of pain. Clamping her hands to her temples, Jack grit her teeth.

 

“What’s wrong?” He asked, moving to assist.

 

“I don’t know!” Jack yelled out, like she couldn’t hear herself. “My head’s fucking… pounding.” Tali moved up beside her, running her Omni-tool over the woman.

 

“Keelah… what is that?” She looked to him, holding up her arm. Garrus’ eyes narrowed at the image, a rumble of recognition escaping his sub-vocals.

 

“Planning to flatten us with your biotics?” He mused, glaring at the prisoner. Her brown eyes widened, confirming his suspicion. “Biochip implant near your amplifier, it’s interfering with the brain. Blocking signals to activate your powers.” He surmised.

 

“Lucky for us.” Tali added, her tone hostile.

 

“Great.” Jack managed, finally recovered from the self-induced migraine. “So I’m toothless in the middle of a riot.”

 

“Come with us and we can help you.” Garrus reiterated his offer, holding out his pistol for her. Blowing out an annoyed sigh, she took it.

 

“Doesn’t look like I got much choice.” Jack muttered to herself, looking the weapon over.

 

“Don’t make me regret this.” The scarred turian threatened, making a show of looming over the prisoner. “Let’s go.”

 

The uneasy trio weaved their way back out through the maintenance tunnels. Garrus had brought up the rear, keeping a close eye on the new addition. He’d dealt with scum like her enough times to know you never let your guard down. Part of him even wanted her to try something, just to get the inevitable over with. But soon they were out in the main cellblock again; the short absence had brought them back to an utterly trashed area.

 

Suns and cons were everywhere, taking pot shots at each other. The mercs were holding their own, flanking and killing dug-in groups of prisoners. But any time their numbers were too great, the blue-clad assholes were cut down. Taking advantage of the confusion, Garrus led the squad along the outskirts of the fighting.

 

“…rrus? Tali? You guys…” The two friends stopped short. He saw Tali fiddle with her Omni-tool.

 

“Shepard?” She called Shepard’s name, obvious concern in her voice. “Are you alright?”

 

“We’re fine. Just having a chat with the warden.” A muffled explosion boomed over the audio. “Any luck with Jack?”

 

“We’ve got her.” Garrus answered. “Wanna link up?”

 

“No. Get to the Normandy. We’ll meet you at the docking tube.” Another explosion. “Talk later.”

 

Garrus snorted to himself. Of course the lucky bastard found the action. He’d been hoping for a shot at the mark-less prick himself, but hearing about it would have to do. His eyes met briefly with Tali’s. He saw that look, the one she used to get whenever Shepard did something stupid. Coming back from the dead wasn’t even enough to get her to stop worrying about the woman. He gave her a well-practised expression, signalling that everything would be fine. That the trust they’d shared in each other’s competence always held firm, that things always worked out. The quarian recognised it immediately, steeling herself. Just in time it seemed, as bullets whizzed past them.

 

The three of them slid into cover, braced up against some kind of raised panelling. Between them and the door on the far side was a whole platoon of Blue Suns troopers. Most were just rank and file, but mixed in was a couple centurions, and at least one commander. Splitting their attention between Garrus’ squad and a group of nearby cons, the enemy couldn’t focus all their fire on either target.

 

Peeking over the panel, the turian fired a burst into one of the troopers. Tali followed suit, her magnum barking two loud shots. Two mercs fell, helmets ripped open from the accurate gunfire. Jack joined in soon after. As expected, her accuracy suffered at range. Garrus listened to the pop, pop, pop of his pistol, watching the tracers go wide two out of three times. She was enthusiastic at least.

 

Garrus got ready to close the distance when he heard the “thump” of a grenade launcher. One of the Suns lobbed a shot right into the middle of the convicts, blowing the unarmored bastards to pieces. With one threat dealt with, a hail of gunfire came the turian’s way. The electric plinking of his shields chased him back behind cover. He returned fire, putting burst after burst downrange. He nicked another trooper before a grenade came hurtling towards them. The boom shook his whole body, keeping his head down. In that moment of respite, he noticed his quarian counterpart on her Omni-tool.

 

“I could use a hand!” He complained, getting her attention. Keeping low, Tali pointed toward the platoon. More specifically, to the crane arm hanging overhead.

 

With a triumphant slap of her gloved finger, she sent the localised hack. Above, the groaning of machinery entered into the din of battle. The enormous mechanical arm began to shudder, menacingly unfolding. The shooting stopped, replaced instead by the Suns turning to face the new threat. The override caused the crane’s hydraulics to fail, and the sheer weight of the thing began to struggle against grinding joints. Now yelling could be heard, warnings and frantic orders being given.

 

Unable to resist, Garrus poked his head out. Jack and Tali joined him, the three of them unable to look away. All at once, the last bit of resistance was overcome. Tonnes of machinery came down in an ear-splitting crash, collapsing the raised position the mercs had been fighting from. Nearly all of them had been within the radius of the thing, and only two of the troopers came running out of the smoky cloud left over.

 

“Ha!” Tali’s boastful cheer got a stunned look from him. Sometimes he forgot just how deadly the girl could be with her Omni-tool.

 

The trio made their way past the tangled mess of metal and through the door. The two friends took the lead, keeping the unshielded Jack safely behind them. As far as Garrus could tell, the Suns must’ve kept the prisoners from getting to the docking bay: At least for this cellblock. Looking out the window, he could see smaller ships and shuttles departing in a hurry. Clearly whatever Tali had broken on board this hulk was well beyond fixing.

 

Cutting through the last of the defenders, the turian took a moment to catch his breath. He thought back to the briefing, how liberally Shepard had used the phrase “low-key”. Oh yeah, a stealth mission. The woman would run a diversion while her crack team of C-Sec flunkout and mechanic broke into a maximum-security prison ship. Naturally things had ended the way they always did with Shepard: Shooting their way out.

 

“Hey, You made it!” A voice called out from behind them, the devil herself.

 

“Shepard!” Tali’s syrupy tone let the scarred turian know he wouldn’t be doing any talking.

 

While she trotted over to exchange reliefs with the nigh-invincible bastard, Garrus kept an eye on their new tag-along. She was standing near the window, her eyes fixed on the Normandy. He didn’t know human body language fluently, but Jack was clearly agitated about something. He could feel himself tensing up, that uncomfortable itch coming back to his injured mandible. Taking a couple steps back, he readied himself. Soon the prisoner turned her attention to Shepard, before her gaze locked on Miranda and Jacob.

 

“I fucking knew it!” She yelled out, drawing her gun. “You played me!”

 

Garrus shouldered his rifle. She was pointing her gun not at the commander, but the quarian beside Shepard. Tali turned to see the threat, flinching. He kept his position, seeing Shepard take a step forward out of the corner of his eye.

 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about. But you point that gun at me.” She ordered.

 

“What, afraid my finger might slip?” Jack mused mirthlessly, sliding her finger into the trigger guard. “Put a hole in your lying-”

 

There was a flash. Garrus watched as his pistol clattered harmlessly to the floor. He’d been waiting for this, expecting it the moment the idiot had picked her target. The woman’s biotic charge was an explosive thing to witness, on the criminal’s ass in the blink of an eye. She’d made the mistake of picking the worst possible person to threaten. Shepard had her hand around Jack’s throat before she could react, holding her against the window’s railing.

 

“I warned you.” Shepard snarled. The woman’s fire was a welcome sight.

 

“Go… fuck yourself.” The tattooed woman spat back at Shepard. The commander glared back at her, skin crackling with blue light. For a long moment everyone was silent, unsure of what they should do. Garrus was content to solve the problem now, even if it meant a couple hours wasted. Miranda and Jacob stood by, clearly undecided on whether the risk was worth it. Eventually, someone spoke up.

 

“Shepard!” Tali called out the woman’s name. The biotics died away, and she released the prisoner. Taking a composing breath, the woman stepped back.

 

“There’s five of us, and you’re unarmed.” Shepard stated. “I’m assuming there’s some reason you’re not using those biotics I came all this way for.”

 

“She’s been muzzled.” Garrus clarified, joining his friend. “Gonna need surgery to fix it.”

 

“Surgery, on a Cerberus frigate?” Jack scoffed, recovering from the ordeal. “You think I’d let you assholes put me under the knife?”

 

The room shook, a metallic shuddering echoed up from the bowels of the ship. The commander looked over to Miss Lawson, who gave Shepard a shake of her head. For once, Garrus agreed. Giving this lunatic back her powers was just about the worst idea possible.

 

“I’m not going to stand here and argue while this ship goes down in flames. I’ve got the only way off, you coming or not?” Shepard gave Jack her ultimatum.

 

The bald woman resisted for a moment. She shot the two Cerberus agents a death glare, saving the worst scowl for the commander herself. She glanced at the pistol, still lying there on the floor. Maybe the criminal would make this easy, try the violent approach. They could cross her off the list and move on. In the end, the fire in Jack’s eyes died out. She cursed under her breath, before nodding in agreement. Shepard looked relieved, giving Garrus the go ahead to escort the prisoner to the Normandy.

 

Jacob and Miranda were quick to join him, sharing in his distrust. The commander lagged behind, checking on her engineer. From a glance, Tali seemed uneasy about something. The thought puzzled him. She was always solid under fire, and its not like that mid-calibre pistol would’ve even strained her kinetic barrier. Whatever it was, the two of them made an effort to get some distance. The turian pushed it out of his mind. Everyone was dealing with stuff; he knew that better than anyone.
