Chapter 17: Crumbling Walls

The dimly lit hallway of the Normandy’s engineering deck felt more like a cage by the minute. It was already an enclosed space, barely big enough to act as a hub between the port and starboard cargo holds, as well as the entrance to engineering itself. Shepard leaned against the railing, looking out the large viewing windows onto the cargo bay below. She could see some of her crewmen down there, making the most of the new gym: Running, lifting weights, chatting while on the less intense machines. It was to see the crew taking their minds off things.

 

After Ferris Fields, the mood had darkened aboard the Normandy.With the constant stresses of the mission, Shepard knew how easy it was to lose yourself to doubts. The enemy was out there, with no way to know where they would strike next. With still so much left to do, it was easy to feel hopeless. But being able to test your body, to take control of yourself and work out that stress, she relished seeing others enjoy it. It also helped her through the silence before her XO’s next rant.

 

“This was clearly a mistake.” Miranda piped up behind Shepard, her nostrils flaring as she pinched the bridge of her nose. Shepard turned to face her, standing up straight.

 

“She’s in the dossiers, same as Mordin, same as Okeer.” Shepard was quick to remind her. “Your boss seems to think we need the kind of power she could offer.”

 

“Firstly, the Illusive Man is our boss.” She corrected Shepard, clearly agitated. “And second, this isn’t some mercenary or morally grey scientist we’re talking about. Jack’s a murderer and a psychopath.”

 

Shepard considered the opinion, tapping at her Omni-tool. If Miranda thought to ask what Shepard was doing, she didn’t voice it.

 

“Obviously it’s a risk, and I’m not saying we should just trust her. But you saw the output logs Tali pulled from her amp. Have you ever seen a human spike that high before?”

 

“…No.” She admitted through a wrinkled nose. “If the logs are accurate, the dark energy output is closer to an asari matriarch.” For a moment it looked like awe twinkled in her icy blue eyes.

 

“So we can’t afford to ignore that kind of edge.” Shepard noted.

 

“It’s a moot point anyway!” She retorted, more forcefully than she meant to. “Jack can’t even use her powers with that chip disrupting her amp.”

 

“So we remove it.”

 

“It’s not that simple.” Miranda blew out a sigh. “It took hours of microsurgery just to upgrade your amp to an L5. And you’re still struggling with your powers. For all we know, that chip could’ve been mounted improperly. It could be damaging her brain as we speak. Even if the surgery goes smoothly, there’s no guarantee she’ll regain her abilities, or that they won’t be diminished. And that’s the positive outlook. One wrong cut could completely alter her personality, what if she had a psychotic break on board?”

 

Letting her tirade hang in the air, Shepard took the moment to consider the possibility. She remembered the talks she’d had with Kaiden, how the lieutenant had refused every offer to upgrade to L3’s back in the day. When she’d asked why, the man had confided just how risky the operation was. She recalled the horror stories of people accidently lobotomised even under strict supervision. The more Shepard thought about it, the more her own amp seemed to itch beneath her skin.

 

“So what do you suggest?” She asked the dark-haired woman.

 

“Leave her in there.” She pointed her finger at the port cargo hold door. “We’ll eat the cost of upkeep until we reach a friendly station, then hand her in to the authorities.”

 

Miranda’s expression betrayed the personal nature of her upset. Perhaps being called a Cerberus cheerleader had gotten under her skin more than the commander had first realised. Just ten minutes ago Shepard had witnessed the queen of composure herself utterly enraged, engaging in a yelling match with the convict. The two had traded insults, petty schoolyard name calling at higher and higher decibels. The reaction from Jack had been immediate and tiresome. After barely a glimpse of that black and white jumpsuit, she was animated. Miranda had similarly been quick to anger, but not before trying the old “you’ll follow my orders” routine she’d attempted with Tali. If the quarian’s reaction had been fiery, Jack’s was an inferno. Any attempts to deescalate were pointless. By the time Shepard had led the Cerberus agent back out of the room, Miranda had turned her anger on her. Flustered beyond anything Shepard had seen before, it was only now that things were beginning to calm again.

 

Before Shepard could argue the point further, the elevator opened. One of the crew approached the tense pair, keeping silent as though he could sense it. In his hands was a small bag, which he deposited with the commander before quickly retreating back out of the deck. Miranda eyed the bag suspiciously, chewing her perfect lip while Shepard inspected the contents. Her satisfied half-smile seemed to tick her off, but she didn’t voice that upset. Instead she folded her arms, impatiently waiting to be filled in.

 

“You’re probably right.” Shepard nodded in agreement. “However, I’d like to try something else before we write her off. You’ll have to wait out here though.”

 

In one quick motion, she tapped the door and was through before Miranda could even voice her protest, locking it behind her. Completely soundproofed, Shepard was hit with the silent expectation of the featureless room she was in. Both the port and starboard cargo holds were identical. Blocky, rectangular rooms meant for storing small cargo that was needed on the upper decks. Due to the efficiency of the main elevator, getting things where they needed to go was barely an issue, and so the two rooms had largely been left bare. Shortly after boarding, Zaeed had seen fit to claim the starboard room, filling it with enough junk to probably qualify for its intended purpose: His own personal merc-cave. But this room had remained untouched, with only a few crates stacked against the walls. Aside from the foldout bed that now sat in the middle of the space, the most noteworthy feature was the occupant.

 

Jack sat rigid on the bed, her pale hands clenched around the metal frame. While Shepard had been discussing things with Miranda, she’d taken the opportunity to shed the top of her prison jumpsuit. Reddish-brown fabric now crumpled around her waist, exposing the woman’s entire upper body. Aside from an improvised bra made from a leather belt, the prisoner’s skin was almost entirely covered in tattoos. Revealed in full, the woman’s body was a tapestry. Different designs and symbols snaked their way around her figure, some of it was readable, and the rest was just indiscernible beauty. A few pieces in particular caught Shepard’s attention. She had a pro-human symbol etched beneath her neck. A four pointed star with skeleton hands flowering out from it. Shepard had seen it before on criminals.

 

The star indicated being ship born, chances were good her parents had been poor planet-hoppers. No doubt the rest of it was gang-related. Her left arm had a sleeve depicting a series of women’s faces, each one too unique to just be an artist’s design: Friends maybe? Her right arm bore something that irked Shepard. Black bones, a spinal column running right down to her hand. There were numbers etched beside each one, guard badges if she had to guess. The more she took in Jack’s tattoos, the more she noticed why Jack had them. Pink, poorly healed scars contrasted against her skin. Most were old wounds: Knives, bullets, maybe some teeth and claws. But some, including a prominent one travelling down the front of her belly, were surgery scars. The kind of surgery she clearly hadn’t consented to.

 

“Had your fill, asshole?” Jack’s husky voice pulled Shepard to her blazing brown eyes. They were fixed on the commander’s.

 

“It’s quite a collection you’ve got.” Shepard remarked, pulling a small crate over toward the bed.

 

“Y’know what these are?” She asked, pointing to the bones on her arm. “Kills… good ones. Might even have a few of your Cerberus buddies on there.” Her answer came with a wicked grin, full lips pulled back to reveal glinting, false teeth. There was something manic in her look, something dangerous.

 

“They the ones who did that to you?” Shepard asked calmly, holding her gaze as she pointed to Jack’s belly. Jack’s grin twisted into a snarl.

 

“Come take a closer look, you fucker.” She hissed, tensing up as Shepard sat down in front of her. “Maybe you’ll recognise them.”

 

“Relax.” Shepard kept her tone even, but firm. “We both know you’re in a tight spot, so you can drop the threats.”

 

Jack didn’t retort, instead she just scowled at the woman. For a while her narrowed eyes remained on Shepard’s, until finally the absent-minded fondling of the bag the commander had brought in overcame her stubbornness. She glanced over it, producing the question automatically.

 

“What’s that?” She asked, immediately returning to her glare as the words escaped her.

 

“It’s a peace offering.” Shepard answered, holding out the gift.

 

Warily, she snatched the thing from Shepard, her fingers quickly wrenching it open. Her gaze lingered inside for a moment before she pawed at the contents: A fresh set of clothes, without any Cerberus logos. On top of them rested a small wristband. Jack lit up when she noticed it, quickly sliding the adornment over her left hand. Unsure, she gave a flick of her wrist before the orange glow of an Omni-tool covered her forearm. For a second she looked bewildered, as though what had happened had defied belief. Then she tapped at the device, bringing up an extranet browser before she finally accepted it was real.

 

“…What’s the catch?” She finally asked, more defensive than angered.

 

“No catch, it’s yours.” Shepard waved away the implications. “I’m guessing it’s been a while since you were out last, you’ve got some catching up to do.”

 

“And these?” She held up the clothes.

 

“You look like shit.” Shepard answered with a shrug. “I figured you could use a shower and a warm meal.”

 

For a minute, Jack’s prickly exterior faltered. Her face softened and she looked down at the gift in her hands. She squished the fabric between her fingers, savouring the feeling of something soft. Shepard watched closely, looking for a way in. There was someone tangible, just beyond all that anger. Someone behind those eyes that wasn’t just a killer, or a psychopath: Someone who hadn’t seen a single act of charity in years. In that instant, she caught herself, locking the woman in her sights again.

 

“What the hell is this?” She demanded. “You spring me, give me free shit and start talking about showers? This supposed to soothe your conscience when you’re lab friends open me up?”

 

Her insinuation clearly came from a place of fear, but the insult was enough to prod a response.

 

“No.” Shepard said forcefully. “This is you on probation. You’re powerless and alone, and so far everyone’s advice is to leave you in this room.”

 

“Then why don’t you?” She spat, screwing up her face at Shepard.

 

“I’m showing you a little faith, a little.” Shepard stressed the word. “You’ll be allowed access to the crew deck and this room, live like a human being for a change.” She leaned in close, her voice low. “But if you lay a finger on my crew, you’ll wish I’d killed you on that prison ship. Understand?”

 

Jack met Shepard’s intimidating glare, baring her teeth. Her hands crushed the garments, eyes burning back at the commander. For a long moment the two sat in silence, testing each other. There was a flash behind the façade, and Shepard was certain this would end violently. But then, out of nowhere, Jack relented. Leaning back on her perch, the convict gave her an easy smile, a knowing smile.

 

“Yeah… I got it.” She said simply.

 

 

Shepard sat at her desk, going over the mission report. She wasn’t sure how long it had been since her conversation with Jack, but she couldn’t get that smile out of her head. Miranda had left by the time Shepard had emerged from the room, no doubt fed up with the whole argument. It had been surprising that Miranda hadn’t stormed up to the cabin, complaining about Shepard’s decision. Maybe she should have. Had Shepard given this criminal too much leniency? She’d tasked EDI with watching Jack, and to alert her and security if Jack tried anything even remotely suspicious. She knew that the alert likely wouldn’t come in time to save whomever Jack decided to attack. Years of life in prison taught someone how to be fast, to kill and maim in seconds before the guards could react. It taught someone how to ignore consequences; that the risk was always worth it, no matter the outcome. Was that the kind of person she wanted for this mission?

 

She knew it in her gut; this was a mistake. Whatever she’d thought she saw behind those brown eyes was just what she wanted to see. People like Jack didn’t get to where they were by accident. There wasn’t some innocent heart hidden beneath the years of violence. People are who they are, for better or worse. The thought turned sour in her mind, and Shepard’s eyes wandered from the diminishing glow of the data-pad to her own hands. The faintest of scars traced along her skin, a constant reminder that she was still knitting back together. The ones on her face were much more noticeable, and their glow bothered her every time she looked in the mirror. One time, after she’d turned out the lights in her bathroom, the commander swore she caught the shine of red behind her eyes: It had unsettled her the rest of the day…

 

It unsettled her now.

 

Maybe the sentiment wasn’t as true as she thought. She’d certainly changed. Memories crossed her mind like old vids, something watched by a third party rather than being in the moment. Shepard thought of Chairman Burns, how he’d been shaking and sniffling under the gun barrel of biotic terrorists. Two years ago and she could still remember her heart pounding, all but certain her impromptu boarding of their ship was going to end in bloodshed. But instead the biotics saw reason; they swallowed their rage despite everything they’d lost. Shepard had been able to talk them down, to deescalate the situation. Shepard had been able to track down Saren; to bring together a disparate group of misfits and save the galaxy from a threat it didn’t even know existed. Where was that diplomacy now? Where was that leadership?

 

People are who they are… for better or worse.

 

“Shepard? It’s me.”

 

A voice chimed over the cabin’s speakers. It was soft and lilting, obscured beneath a vocaliser. The somewhat timid announcement struck the woman like a direct order. Unthinking, she was up and out of her chair, moving across the room to the upper tier. There was something about her voice; whenever she heard it the effect was immediate and intense. Everything seemed to clear, to come into focus: A thousand whispering voices were drowned out by a clean, pure note that seemed to emanate from inside her.

 

It remained, long after the final word was said, long after her conscious mind had moved on to other things. Somewhere far away, beyond a stretch of mist that rested at the corners of her mind, Shepard could hear it. In the impossible tangle of thoughts and feelings that separated her awakening in the Lazarus lab from her last moments above Alchera, that voice was the one thing that followed her: The one strand linking the two worlds together.

 

The door opened to reveal her hooded guest. Tali looked up at her, a little startled by Shepard’s presence just beyond the threshold. Black and gold and purple all seemed to anxiously wait just a step beyond, as though seeking permission to go any further.

 

“Hey.” Tali sounded nervous. Shepard gave her a smile and made a show of waving the quarian through the door.

 

“Come in.” Shepard put a little flourish into the invitation, getting a giggle from her.

 

It had only been a handful of days since Tali had woken up in that very room, her first moments on the new Normandy. But the way she looked around it was like she’d never seen it before. Shepard watched as she took in the blue light from the still empty aquarium, before her eyes caught the desk’s glass display shelves. The Normandy SR-2 rested alone inside, but she looked intensely at the craftsmanship of the miniature silver model. While she took in the sights for a second time, the commander moved down to the lower tier, fidgeting by the cupboard fridge.

 

“You uh… want a drink or something?” She asked, head inside the chilly compartment. “No brandy, but I’ve got some beer from Garrus.”

 

“Hmm? Oh, no thank you.” She answered, eyes lingering over the bed. “I don’t… I haven’t been drinking too much lately.”

 

“Right, no of course.” Shepard fumbled her apology, stupidly realising what she’d suggested. Tali waved it off in her typical, good-natured way. Meeting at the foot of the bed, in the centre of the lower tier, the two shared an awkward silence.

 

“So… how do you want to do this?” She asked, tilting her mask at Shepard.

 

“After the Blitz, my shrink helped me through the bad stuff with a special kind of therapy. I don’t know all the ins-and-outs of it, but I remember the sessions. She was a veteran herself, from First Contact.” Shepard recalled. “I thought we’d give it a try.”

 

Leading Tali over to the L-shaped couch, the pair sat down either side of the corner itself. Close enough for comfort, but enough distance to look each other in the eye. Shepard watched her closely; she could tell Tali was still nervous, still unsure. Resting her hands on the table, Tali rubbed her fingers back and forth against her gloved palms. She kept the noise to a minimum, but the chin light on her mask betrayed her faster breathing, blinking in time with the little movement she couldn’t control.

 

“You okay?” Shepard asked gently, leaning her head forward a little to catch her eye.

 

“Yeah… yes.” She nodded. Suddenly her fidgeting hands slipped below the table, searching through one of her suit pouches. They returned with a bundle of wire between them. At first the commander wasn’t sure what she was looking at, until she realised the two buds at the end of the swiftly untangled mess were headphones.

 

“Would you mind putting these on?” Tali asked, holding them out to Shepard. “They’re fitted for humans… I think.”

 

“I don’t mind, but what are they for?” She asked, cocking an eyebrow.

 

“They’re for my… internal suit audio.” She answered, looking away as she said it. “I don’t feel comfortable using wireless comms. Especially with that thing listening to us.”

 

“And these can’t be hacked?”

 

“That’s right. When I connect them.” She pointed to a tiny port behind the mask of her helmet. “You’ll get a direct feed from my suit’s audio, no signals at all.”

 

“Alright…” Shepard slowly removed the translator earpieces she typically wore, while Tali fiddled with her mask. Soon the chin light went out, and a new pair of slightly uncomfortable headphones squished inside Shepard’s ears. Carefully, the engineer took the overly long cord and plugged it into her helmet. There was a second of scratchy feedback, and then Shepard heard it.

 

“Can you hear me okay?”

 

Tali’s words faded from Shepard’s mind. She recognised the question, at least some part of her did. But overpowering all of it was the unaltered, unmodified sound of Tali’s voice. It was as though she had always carried it with her, felt the weight and shape of it under a pair of gloves. She knew it generally, the details that made her particular sound unique amongst a galaxy of noise. But now, for the first time it was like she could touch it: Bare skin feeling every texture, noticing every ridge and divot. Ever since they’d met, Shepard had understood on some level that she was only experiencing a part of who her friend really was. She knew, rationally that there was more to Tali below the suit and helmet. But over time, her mind had adjusted to the façade. Now that barrier had been broken, or at least cracked. The feeling was at once familiar, and yet like nothing she’d ever experienced. Beyond the onset of strong emotions, she felt privileged to hear it.

 

“Shepard?” Tali’s probing tone pulled her right back to the couch. “Can you hear me okay?”

 

“Yeah… sorry.” She blinked a few times, adjusting. “I just… I’ve never heard your voice without the helmet.”

 

“Oh.” Tali’s eyes widened, tensing up a little. “I… suppose you haven’t.” She fussed with her realk, where the cord pushed against it. “It’s not too bad, is it?” She asked, half-joking.

 

“No, not at all.” Shepard was nearly stunned by the suggestion. “You’ve got a very… nice voice.” She cringed a little, watching her clunky compliment reflect in Tali’s shining eyes.

 

“I mean it’s nice to hear your voice, without the modulation.” She clarified with a smile. The engineer’s eyes squished into crescents.

 

“Thank you.” She said, leaving the two of them in another silence. Composing herself, Shepard regained her air of experience.

 

“Alright. Why don’t we start with the mission? What were you there to do?” She heard Tali let out a quiet sigh.

 

“Haestrom’s sun is destabilising.” Tali explained. “Before the mission, the Admiralty Board had noticed an enormous change in the size and colour for the star: Something that couldn’t happen naturally. We were concerned the geth could be responsible, so I was put together with a science team and some marines from First Recon to check it out.”

 

“Kal’Reegar’s squad?”

 

“Right. I already knew most of them, from previous missions or just around the Neema. Meeko and the Nualli could get us into geth space undetected, and our mission was to help Dr Vassa’s team discover the cause behind Dholen’s expansion.”

 

She paused, looking down at the table. A few seconds of silence went by. Shepard could see her hands trembling, quick breaths escaping through her nose. Placing her hand over Tali’s, she gave it a squeeze.

 

“Everything okay?” She asked, getting Tali to look at her.

 

“Y-yeah. It’s just… talking about them like this. Like they’re not…”

 

“Hey.” Shepard pulled Tali back to her. “Let’s practise something else, while we’re talking.” Tali looked at her expectantly. “I want you to follow my breathing, alright?”

 

Shepard drew in a deep breath through her nose, watching and listening as the quarian followed suit. Holding up a hand, she counted down from four on her fingers, nodding along to the increments. Tali mimicked the movements, holding her breath. Then slowly Shepard let the breath out through her mouth, listening to the air pass between Tali’s lips as she followed. She repeated the count on empty lungs before drawing in another breath. Together they breathed in and out, and the commander could already feel her heart slowing in response. It was almost second nature to her now, a fool-proof way to calm down.

 

“How are you feeling?” She asked.

 

“…Better.” She nodded. “Thank you.”

 

“We can keep going when you’re ready.”

 

After regaining her composure, Tali talked and Shepard listened. She recounted the jump through the Tassrah Relay, how she’d been terrified the whole trip towards Haestrom that the ship would be spotted. She told Shepard about the enormous structure she’d seen orbiting the planet, how the Nualli had dived down into the atmosphere to avoid detection before barely fitting into a cramped, concealed landing pad. Some of her story was almost mythical.

 

She shared with Shepard her experience down below the observatory, inside the Hall of Ancestors: Quarian history, hidden away in some tomb. It was hard to imagine the scrappy inhabitants of the Migrant Fleet as farmers and kings, looking up at the sky from their homeworld. As Tali spoke, her tone seemed to shift from sombre to awe, clearly beyond the horrors that occurred there was something magical about Haestrom to her. Setting foot amongst the history of her Ancestors. But before long, her recollection took on more detail as she closed in on the attack.

 

“It was after midnight.” Tali began, her voice thicker than before. “I was coming back to base to get some sleep, when I stopped to watch the aurora. I’d only ever seen them from ships before. When the first explosions happened, it wasn’t even the sound that alerted me. It was the orange light.”

 

“A geth ship?”

 

“None of us even noticed it until OP-3 was hit. It was dark, but I followed my HUD toward the observatory. Keelah, I felt the thing fly right over me as it attacked the next outpost.”

 

“Tola’s team were at the observatory?”

 

“Yeah. They weren’t soldiers Shepard, some pistol training and that’s it. There’s no way they’d survive a geth attack. I didn’t know where anyone was, so I went alone. It was just luck that Kal’s team was nearby. The sergeant wanted to go back to the ship.”

 

Tali stopped. Shepard could hear her breath hitch between her lips.

 

“…I shouldn’t have made them go.” She said quietly.

 

“You wanted to help Tola’s team?”

 

“…Yes.”

 

“Because they were civilians?”

 

“We were supposed to protect them.” She strained, her voice shaking.

 

“That’s why Kal agreed to go, wasn’t it?”

 

She nodded, but kept quiet. Shepard squeezed her hand gently, and they practised their breathing together.

 

“By the time we got there, the geth were already attacking. I could see the scientists firing back from inside. I tried to radio them, but we were being jammed. I only got bursts, enough to know they were alive. We spread out to engage the geth, but their patrol ship attacked the observatory. The whole thing came down before we…”

 

She pursed her lips, taking unsteady breaths through her nose.

 

“By the time we were back together, they were everywhere. We ran for the ship, trying to return fire. Then… one minute I was right next to Riah, and then I was on the ground. I must’ve tripped, or gotten knocked over but I don’t… remember. Myrr came back to help me… I didn’t see the hunter until…”

 

The words fell away as she stifled her sobs. Shepard could hear every agonising detail, every strain in her throat, every strangled moan, breaths puffed against her helmet as she tried to hold herself together. Shepard knew better than to interrupt. She let her grieve, let her come undone. Sliding toward Tali, she put an arm around her. Tali didn’t respond, but after a few minutes of tortured listening the sobs began to subside. Her breathing slowed and steadied. Shepard gave her back her space, taking her hand again.

 

“He died a few hours later.” She said; her matter-of-factness mixed with grief. “We were holed up in this storage room… and he died there.”

 

“I’m sorry, Tali.”

 

“We tried to make it back to ship. The geth attacked, and we forced them back but… Kal was injured; Riah’s shields were down. I couldn’t protect them both when their ship found us.”

 

Shepard could feel her trembling again.

 

“She died protecting us, Shepard. I just left her there… I hid in a corner while she…” Her voice hitched between breaths.

 

“Tali?” Shepard’s voice pushed through to her. She looked at the commander, tears in her eyes.

 

“When you convinced Kal to go to the Observatory, you were trying to protect the civilians right? That was your job.”

 

“Yeah.” She admitted through a sniffle.

 

“You went in with your squad and engaged the geth. Trying to thin them out, draw their attention?”

 

“It’s standard procedure. Their neural network prioritises survival over objectives after a critical loss of programs.” She nodded, slowing her breathing.

 

“When the patrol ship attacked, how far was your squad from the building?”

 

“I don’t know… maybe two hundred metres?”

 

“You couldn’t have outrun the ship to the target.”

 

“No… I know.” She looked down at the table. “It’s just…”

 

“You followed procedure, taking out the immediate threat. You did your job as best you could.”

 

Tali nodded weakly.

 

“You said Myrr was attacked, by a Hunter.”

 

“Because I was clumsy.” She hissed the words between her teeth. “If I hadn’t tripped… I should’ve been watching for it.”

 

“Tali we both know how effective their camo is. You remember the hallway on Feros? Wrex ran into the thing before any of us saw it.” Shepard gave her a sympathetic look. “And we’ve all tripped in battle. It happens. I would’ve died during that ambush on the sky-bridge if you hadn’t been there to pull me up.”

 

“He was young.” She said quietly. “He didn’t deserve to…”

 

“I know. But Myrr died saving his friend’s life. He knew you would’ve done the same for him.”

 

“He wouldn’t have had to if I wasn’t strung out on stims!” The self-loathing dripped from her voice. “I could’ve helped him… helped Riah.”

 

Shepard didn’t answer. Her silence seemed to surprise Tali; soon the quarian’s eyes were on her.

 

“Kal told me about what you did. He said you used your own body to shield him from the geth ship. That even though you could barely walk, you dragged him across a kill zone into cover while Riah bought you both time.”

 

Sharp breaths broke up Tali’s silence as Shepard moved closer to her. She sat right beside her friend, holding her gaze.

 

“Your friends were brave soldiers. I can tell just hearing you talk about them.” Leaning forward a little, she brought her eyes down to Tali’s level.

 

“Do you think Myrr would blame you for what happened, or Riah? Do you think Tola would blame you?”

 

She watched as Tali’s eyes narrowed to tear-stained slits. Tali began to mewl, slumping against her. She shook her head. “I don’t know.” She said faintly. Shepard listened to her breathing, slower and deeper. Tali was quiet for a long time; minutes went by as she processed the question. Gently Shepard embraced her, pulling the young woman close.

 

“…No.” She admitted, barely above a whisper.

 

“No.” Shepard agreed. “I don’t think they would either.”

 

She felt Tali’s arms search for her, returning the hug. Tali squeezed tightly, burying her helmet into Shepard’s chest. There were no tears; her sobs had all but died away. Instead the two of them just sat there, clinging to each other.

After everything that had happened, the confusion, the fear, the dread and horror. It all felt so much more real. There were still a thousand problems to solve, people that needed her help. Friends she wouldn’t let suffer. But right now she could sit, and enjoy having at least one person in the galaxy close to her again. Tali’s wounds would take time to heal, but they’d taken the first step.

 

“Does it…” Her sniffling voice caught Shepard. “Does it get any easier?” Tali couldn’t see her face tighten.

 

“No.” Shepard told her the truth.

 

“But after a while, and with good people beside you, things do get better. You become stronger, discover more of yourself. I never thought there was more to who I was beyond my parent’s farm. Or beyond what I saw during my career. But there’s always more to us Tali. I learned that the day we met.”

 

Tali pulled away, enough to look up at her.

 

“What happened on Haestrom was horrible. I’d give anything to have stopped it. But I know you. Things will get better; you will overcome this. And I’ll be here for you, any time you need me. If you wanna talk, or have a drink, or… make fun of Miranda…”

 

For the first time since they’d sat down, Tali snorted a laugh in her helmet.

 

“…You’re always welcome here, okay? Always.” Shepard gave her a warm smile.

 

Tali didn’t say anything. For a moment she just looked at Shepard. The commander watched as her captivating, shining eyes squished into glowing crescents. Untangling her arms from the embrace, she leaned her head on Shepard’s shoulder. Shepard kept her arm around Tali, two years of absence holding them together like binary stars. Tali needed this, a moment to be vulnerable: A person to vent to, someone who would understand, rather than judge. As Shepard sat there, listening to her breathing through the still-connected headphones, she realised just how much she needed it too. Just how much she needed her.

 
