Chapter 18: Nightmare

A woman’s eyes adjust to the dappled light. All around her are the peeping and piping of birds, the rustling of unseen creatures in the undergrowth. The air is cool and heavy with morning dew. She feels the cold softness of soil and fallen leaves beneath her feet. Unsure, she glances down. The clothes that cover her body are not hers, though they feel comfortable clinging to her skin. Slowly her awareness reaches outward, a nervous tingle crawls up her back. The woman can’t remember how she came to be here.

 

All around her stand the moss-covered trunks of trees, the forest floor overgrown with shrubs and ferns. Above the sunlight struggles to enter, finding it’s way down past a thousand green shields. She turns, looking for a landmark, something to orient herself. Her efforts are fruitless; the trees stretch on in all directions. The woman tries, but her sight fails as the woods disappear into darkness.

 

Then she sees it. Ahead of her, light pours in past the trees. The edge of this forest must lie just beyond. Ignoring the squelching of wet soil underfoot, the woman strides toward the beckoning shine. She trails bare hands along the rough wooden trunks of the trees as she passes them. It seems the closer she draws to the light, the warmer the air becomes. Soft soil begins to change, the ground pressing up stubbornly against her as hard stone. The feeling is odd, and the woman looks down to confirm her sensation.

 

Sure enough, just as the last trees part the ground beneath her has changed as well. Her skin reacts to the newfound warmth, not only from the sun washing over her but also from the stone. The weight of the misty air is gone, replaced by the free and easy sun-dried winds. High above, pink tinged clouds hang across a blue sky. The sound of waves crashing against the shore finds her ears. It drums up from below, revealing to the woman the great height she stands upon: Bronze stone cliffs, looking out over a cerulean ocean.

 

For a moment, the woman simply stands there. She’s never seen the ocean before, not like this. Just offshore, a collection of rocks jut up from the water: The remnants of a long-gone shoreline perhaps. The endless caress of wind and water has carved them into beautiful shapes. The warm sun hangs low, casting striking shadows. The sound of animals is absent here, only the gentle whisper of wind and rhythmic roar of waves. She is certain the forest must still lay behind her, but with her back to the green depths they seem to vanish entirely.

 

There is something strange about this place. As her eyes take in the vista, the swirling dry winds die away. It feels as though the world around her is holding its breath, waiting for something to happen. The woman feels it too; the hair on her neck stands on end. Uneasy, her gaze scans back and forth along the water, tracing the rocks and the clouds above. Searching for a sign, that things may continue as before and that she might re-join the chorus of the world around her. Sweat beads on the woman’s brow, her knuckles whiten as she clenches her fists.

 

A sound.

 

The woman turns to find something emerging from dark recesses of the woods. Hooves scrape against the stone, clacking as they carry the shape forward out of the gloom. Even at a distance, she can hear the creature’s heavy breaths. Long legs carry a barrelled chest, a thick neck holding aloft a slim head replete with enormous, branching antlers. The golden-brown fur of the animal is thick and shaggy, and a pair of deep, soulful eyes regard her. The woman looks upon the creature dumbstruck. As it approaches, images flare at the back of her mind. She searches desperately for the word, the name of such a presence. It finds her first.

 

Elk.

 

She remembers it from books, from seeing one foraging in a video. But this creature towers over her, looking down its broad nose. Fear tickles at her mind as the Elk stops in front of her, its sheer size only more apparent. It holds her gaze, how she doesn’t know. Then after a contented snort, it moves past. Clopping hooves stop on the cliff edge, the mystical beast surveying the horizon.

 

The woman doesn’t know why, but her feet carry her forward. She stops by the animal’s side, her head barely at its shoulder. Following the Elk’s example, she looks again. To her, everything looks the same: A rich bronze sun, cascading light across a calm cerulean sea. Deep shadows reach out from the carved rocks, and pink clouds hang high above, little more than wisps in the dry air. The sounds of the world do not return, but the strange company puts the woman at ease.

 

It feels right to share this view, to share this moment: Even if her companion is a creature so alien to her as to be almost unreal. For a moment, the silly fancy of wanting to speak crosses her mind. There’s something she wants to say, but not to this Elk. She wants to share it, share so much. Above all, she wants to share this view. Unable to resist, she looks up at the creature. Its wandering gaze is fixed on the sky. It’s almost comical to see such focus from an animal. A smile creeps on her face.

 

Then she hears it.

 

Something soft, just barely audible.

 

A whisper.

 

At first she glances around, looking for the person responsible. Even though the words were spoken softly, she recognises her name. But all around is the same, a wall of trees and an endless stretch of golden cliffs. The sheer absence of sound becomes more pronounced, the words come again unhampered. Try as she might, the woman can’t make them out. She hears her name again, and the voice who calls it. She turns to the Elk, standing still with its eyes on the sky. Moving closer, she watches the creature’s face, straining her ears.

 

She hears the whisper again, right in front of her. She knows that voice, the one who calls her. It sounds like warmth, like softness and sweetness. Like early mornings and rolls in the dirt, scabbed knees and impish laughter. So many years since she’d heard that voice, but now it coos the edges of her mind. She feels tears well in her eyes, surprise gripping her when she spots the Elk’s face. Tears stream down its face, pouring from those large, comprehending, understanding orbs. The woman feels heat on her skin, flashes play in the corner of her vision. A strange new fear grips her; slowly she follows the creature’s gaze.

 

High above, the calming blue sky is broken by fire. Reflecting in the waters below, the vista comes alive with flashes. Ice grips the woman’s heart. At such a great distance, it’s impossible to tell what’s happening. But something deep inside her knows the truth. She can only watch, as flash after flash occur, as blazing orange light streaks down through the clouds. She can hear the voice again. Its whispers are growing louder. The recognition changes, no less potent but not the same.

 

It sounds like discovery, like patience and precision and wit: Like the hum of engines and the ache of long nights. It sounds gentle and longing and wanting. She digs her fingers deep into their palms, hoping against hope to distract herself from the carnage above. The fires are falling low, plummeting into the ocean. All that heat and light snuffed out as the endless blue consumes it. More fires join it, spiralling down from above.

 

More voices echo in her ears: Thousands of them, hundreds of thousands. They each are different, but impossible to tell apart. She can hear them clearly now, whispers growing louder. The voices call her name, as though reaching out to her. They are pleading, begging for her help. The fires above are calling her. She looks up at them, to her horror there are shapes in the fire. Falling, wreathed in flame, the shapes crash into the water below. Cries turn to screams, pleading and begging and crying out for salvation becomes and endless chorus of agony. The fire calls to her, accusing her.

 

Amongst the deafening scene, one voice grasps her. She knows it, feels the longing in it, the wanting. The voice cries out, begging for her rescue. Pleading for her presence. Frantically the woman’s bloodshot eyes scan the sky, looking for any trace among the inferno. Just then, warmth collects around her feet. Something wet and sticky tugs at her skin. Pulled away for but a moment, she looks down to see a quagmire of blood and flesh and fur surrounding her. Panicked, she looks over to her companion.

 

The Elk stands tall, its stench confronting her nostrils as she lays her eyes upon it. The golden-brown creature is no more. Instead, a hulking mess of decaying black sinew and glinting white bone dominate her view. Anything familiar or comforting about the animal is gone, replaced by a twisted, hideous parody. The monster stands shakily on its decaying legs, struggling to maintain its impressive height. The woman’s sickened gaze traces along the remaining shreds of muscle that still grip to it. The smell is mortifying. She can’t help but gag and step away. That’s when she sees it: The forest behind her, a wall of fire. Stretching all the way to the horizon, the intensity of heat is so extreme that tears and sweat boil away. The ends of her hair begin to crackle, and her clothes blacken.

 

Pain and guilt and fear give way to sheer terror. She is trapped, caught in the crucible of heat and noise and death. The screams are unrelenting, and in a moment of confusion, the woman loses the voice she had been clinging to. The voice is gone, buried within a sky of wailing torment. The beast turns. For a final time, she meets the creature’s eyes. Flesh and fur have completely deserted it now, scraps of meat cling only around the shoulders. Rising up a thin stack of vertebrae, sits a slender head. Protruding out are a pair of enormous antlers, cracked and splintering from the flame. Teeth sprout from its misshapen maw, but they are barely noticed. Instead the monster’s eyes catch the woman.

 

Large, comprehending, understanding eyes.

 

Gone.

 

Reduced to sunken black sockets.

 

But deep inside, something glows. At first a twinkle, than a spark.

 

The woman feels her organs lanced with pain as those burning golden flames erupt from the creatures skull.

 

The eyes command, control… They look upon her, in the endless din of suffering.

 

With hate.
