Dream's End

“Shepard… Jane…”

 

A woman feels the name wash over her. She hears her voice, like the hum of engines and long conversations: That singular, perfect voice. Eyes open, but there is only darkness. The rush of blood fills her ears, a tinny echo. Something is pounding in her chest. It hammers against her, forcing the air out, whistling through her teeth. She feels her head turn, searching desperately for that sound of sanctuary. But there is nothing. The pounding grows louder, turning the woman’s stomach. Without thinking she clutches her chest, trying to make it stop.

 

The scraping of metal pierces the rushing blood.

 

There is no feeling of contact. Skin does not meet skin, its soft cushion relenting under pressure. Instead, there is nothing. All at once, she notices. She cannot feel the ground beneath her, or the wind that blows beyond the rushing blood. Even her own chest, there is no meeting: Only the force of will, straining the joints. Instead there is a scraping, metallic shriek. She stops, unable to bear anymore. Her shaking hands search upward, groping against unfamiliar contours. There is no give anywhere, no softness. They clink against her exterior, the sound carrying higher and higher. Finally she can hear it, closer than before. Carefully those fingers travel, forced on through the horror of what likely awaits them.

 

The pounding stops, seizing in terror. Cold metal scratches against the lips of twin craters. Shaking, they sink down into the deep, empty recesses in her skull. She hears them tap against the sockets’ bottom; she feels their presence. Absent muscles yearn to clench, to pull closed eyelids and force tears free. They yearn to scream; to twist flesh and skin into the picture of agony. But nothing happens. There is no scream, and there is no expression. There is nothing.

 

“Jane!”

 

A hand grips her: Soft, warm and full of life. She knows it immediately, recognises every divot and ridge. Her voice calls her, and her hand tugs at her arm. She turns to her, following the sound. Only darkness greets her. But she knows she is there, just inches away. She feels her crash against her, like a wave against a ragged cliff. Heat and softness, the primal welcoming of flesh is enough to stay the terror. There is no feeling, no sensation. The woman simply knows it is there. Those perfect arms embrace her, and that perfect voice calls for her. She wants to return it… she has to.

 

Her scream drowns out every thought: The hum of engines and long conversations, dissolving into a blood-curdling shriek. It fills her mind as cold fingers sink deep into her. The warm body thrashes, struggling to escape. Begging to escape. The woman tries to let go, to release the perfect voice from her pain. But meat and blood hold her grip like tar. She struggles, pulling hard against the joints in her arms. The darkness becomes a cacophony of wails, metal slicing through flesh. She wants it to end, for her pain to stop. Absent muscles contort, trying in vain to convey her remorse. But there is nothing.

 

Then she sees it. Beyond the struggle and the wailing, those empty voids behold.

 

Golden flames: First two, then four. They watch her, merciless and jeering. The Beast. The woman’s head cranes upward, as the full visage appears before her. The Beast towers above them, the familiar bones of an elk discarded. Instead its grotesque form is covered in steel. Tall as a mountain, its alien appearance pulls horror from the pit of her stomach. Writhing, crying meat goes limp in her arms. She feels another sound, the booming of a million agonised voices. It roars up from inside her.

 

“You are not Shepard.”

In the dim blue of the captain’s cabin, Shepard jolted awake. Her eyes adjusted quickly, sharpening the image of the ceiling above. The skylight remained closed, the shutter obscuring the black depths beyond. But her keen vision noticed something. For just a split second, two red glints reflected in the glass. They stared down at her, lingering just long enough to be unmistakeable. Then they faded. Drenched in sweat, Shepard pinched the bridge of her nose, closing her eyes. The softness of skin was a welcome relief. Resting her head on the pillow, she let the nightmare slowly bleed away, focusing instead on the miracle she’d enjoyed before it.

She had stripes, and claws… She never would’ve guessed.

Seeing her, feeling her. Having that warm, suited body share her bed had brought the woman back to Illium. Except this time, there was no giddiness or worry. This time it just felt right. Like it was meant to be.

The thought roused something in her. Rolling over, she saw the empty spot where Tali had been. Her absence wasn’t enough to worry her; she was the Normandy’s chief engineer. But when she brought up her Omni-tool for the time, those tired eyes widened. It was still two hours before her shift. With a frustrated grunt, Shepard brought up the Normandy map, activating the locator. Another gift from her girlfriend, both their tools were synced. At a moment’s notice, one could home in on the other. Part of her pondered just how someone like Tali might use it. A few seconds went by before the tool gave her her partner’s location.

The cabin bathroom…

Shepard was on her feet, shirt pulled over her chest. She knew enough about environment suits to be concerned. If it required her physical presence in a bathroom, she could need help. Pacing up the tier steps, she gave Boo’s cage a quick glance. The hamster was pressed against the glass, dark eyes locked on the bathroom door. His agitated mood mirrored the commander’s. Disabling the auto-open feature, she gave a soft few knocks.

“Tali, you okay?” She called through the sliding panel.

No answer.

Whatever pretences of calm she had vanished. With a tap the door opened, and she went inside. The breath caught in her lungs. Tali was on the floor, propped up against the corner. Her arms were clenched tightly around her stomach, her whole body shaking. Despite the violence of her tremors, she didn’t make a sound. Her chin-light was gone, and the bright eyes behind her mask were nowhere to be seen. In the near-silence of the cabin, only the faintest rustle of her shivering legs could be heard against the hard floor. It chilled her to the bone, seeing her like that. Sweat was already forming on her palms as she rushed over. Mouth dry, she forced words out as she touched her shoulders.

“Tali, what’s happening?” Her question was somewhere between a demand and a naked plea.

She froze at her touch, going rigid. Then those dazzling eyes flashed wide, seeing her there. She stared at her, silent and shaking her helmet. The terror she felt reflected back from those beautiful twin stars. It was enough to break the wave, panic flooding into her mind. With shaking hands, she fiddled with her mask. The vocaliser lit up, followed by the sound of ragged breathing. The first sound she heard was a gasp of air.

“Jane!” She choked out her name between coughs.

“Jesus, are you okay?” The question seemed automatic, mechanical. But she asked it anyway. She had to be okay.

“Yeah.” She nodded hastily, taking her hand in hers. “Just… minor reaction.” She felt her squeeze tight as another coughing fit struck her. “Don’t worry, I’ll… I’ll be…”

She fell forward, on to her hands and knees. Shepard watched helplessly as her stomach tightened, pulling up against her spine and exposing the outline of her ribcage. She heard that gentle lilting voice, groan and retch as she vomited. Even muffled by the mask, her anguish made the blood drain from her face. Finally her body relaxed again, a taught spring released. Her eyes fluttered; shallow panting stopping any words from coming. Her arms began to buckle under the weight, as the last of the quarian’s strength failed. In an instant Shepard grabbed her, breaking the fall. Her head lolled forward, unresponsive. It banished all coherent thought from her.

Carefully, she lifted Tali up, carrying her out of the bathroom. Fear screamed inside her, drowning out any rational conclusions she could come to. Seeing her like this, hanging limp in arms again… it brought back nightmares from Haestrom. Finding her there in the rubble. Now that same feeling gripped her again, almost worse now. Carefully she set her down on the bed, watching her chest rise and fall for a moment. She had to calm down. Keying up her Omni-tool, she contacted the Crew Deck.

“Karin, you there?” She asked, forcing her tone to stay level. A groggy groan answered her.

“…Commander?” The doctor asked, her accented voice carrying a hint of tired sharpness.

“I need you in the med-bay, now.” She ordered. “Tali’s unconscious.” The next thing she heard was the rustling of sheets.

“I’ll be ready in two minutes.” The slightest hint of panic coloured her professional tone.

She slumped down on the bed, her head in her hands. She suddenly felt exhausted, her entire being unclenching. Horizon tugged at the corners of her mind. The burning lance of the Collector weapon, boring deep into her flesh. The smell of roasting meat, the cold feeling as nerve endings were snuffed out. The pain she’d felt in that handful of seconds had been excruciating. Yet none of it even came close to the terror that had preceded it. Seeing that same fate, inches away from Tali.

She’d sworn long ago, after Virmire, that nothing would ever touch her. That she would die before she let this closest of people suffer. Now the skin on her face itched, and her jaw ached as she grit her teeth. How long had she been like this, quietly agonising while she slept? The blood rushed in her ears. Rage burned and writhed inside her, wanting to find something to destroy. She looked down at her hands, and for a moment she saw the stains of crimson and cobalt blue.

It was happening again.

All of it blinked away when a gloved hand touched her back. She hid the wetness in her eyes, taking a deep breath as Tali’s warm, soft presence leaned against her. She was still trembling, forcing herself up. She felt her helmet rest on her back, those slender arms meeting around her waist. She clung tight, trying her best to reassure her. It was almost worse. She covered her hands with hers, returning the young woman’s gentle affection. Shepard’s tongue ran anxiously across her teeth, mouth parted but silent. She had no idea what to say. She wanted to ask her a hundred different questions, to know everything she could about what was happening to her. She wanted to warm her up, find some way to make her laugh. Anything to not drown in the misery and pain she was feeling. In the end, not a thing came to her. It was easier to cling to procedure.

“Karin’s prepping the med-bay now.” She said calmly, burying the fear. “You gonna be okay, for a couple more minutes?” Shepard turned her head, but couldn’t look at her.

“Yes… thank you.” Tali’s voice was barely more than a whisper.

“How long you been up?” She squeezed her hand.

“An hour, maybe a little longer.” She cleared her throat. “Symptom suppressants… I thought they’d last the night.” The quarian gave a throaty sigh, pressing against her a little harder. “…I didn’t want to scare you.”

Reaching back, she coaxed the young woman with an affectionate rub. Soon the matrass shifted beneath her, and Tali crawled into her lap. Propping herself up in the crook of her arm, her shining eyes met hers. Even through the mask, she could see they were heavy. Another pang of guilt shot through her. She must’ve been up for hours. As much as she wanted her to rest, the thought terrified her. She wouldn’t be comfortable until she was under the doctor’s care. Her gaze wandered, taking in her face like she’d never seen it before. Her slow, measured breaths were accompanied by the touch of gloved fingertips. She traced along her cheek, reaching a little higher to ghost the bags under her eyes. She watched those twin stars narrow, tears glinting at their edges. Her hand fell away, resting on her belly, exhausted.

Shepard pulled the quarian into her, pressing her forehead to her mask. Rocking back and forth, she gave the warmest embrace she could muster. She knew nothing she could say would help her; she needed to feel it. Two minutes ticked by slowly, every second stretching out as far as it could. It dragged her back to Elysium, those last few minutes before an ambush. How the whole world seemed to hold its breath, readying for what was about to happen. It was a horrible feeling, those last moments. It was in that warped envelope of time, that the worst always happened. How many times had another enemy squad arrived, or a marine caught a stray bullet? Desperation was like blood on the wind, and death always stalked close by. Hunting her, its cold paws in her footsteps. Every time, it came that little bit closer. She’d seen the glint of its fangs when it came for Ash. Felt them on her neck as the last gasps of air left her suit.

Now it was here… and it wanted her.

Karin’s voice was in her earpiece. Relief.

With Tali’s arm over her shoulder, she guided her towards the elevator. Her long, graceful legs slipped and stumbled. The Crew Deck was still dim, reflecting the waning graveyard shift. Not a soul was present. In a way, Shepard was relieved. The last thing she wanted was to make a show of this. More muffled coughing escaped Tali’s helmet, slipping through her attempts to keep quiet. Her free hand hung by her side, unable to even reach her mask’s vocaliser. Finally the med-bay door opened, and a waiting Doctor Chakwas rushed to assist. Despite her age, Karin was strong, shouldering the weight without an ounce of struggle. Together they laid her down on a bed.

Shepard took a step back, giving the doctor the room she needed to work. Her English accented voice muttered to herself as she looked over suit-scans, pacing between the bed and her desk. She attached tubing to Tali’s arms and legs, hooking them up to the bed. She looked on as dark-coloured liquids were pumped out and clear ones were pumped in. Soon the hiss of an injector joined the chorus. Blinking, she glanced out the window. Karin had already fogged them over. Quiet moans came from the bed; each one was enough to drill the pit in her stomach deeper. The pain only abated when she heard a sigh of relief.

“All right…” Karin joined her. “I’ve got her on another round of symptom suppressants. With any luck she’ll get a few hours sleep.”

“The, um…” She pointed to the dark-coloured tubes. “Is she okay?”

“Waste removal, poor dear’s purged just about all her stomach contents in the last few hours. It was straining the suit’s internal storage.” She tapped at her data-pad. “I’m getting some fluids into her, when she’s awake we’ll try for nutrient paste.”

Just hearing it numbed the woman. She couldn’t even remember the last time she’d been seriously ill. Alliance gene therapy had come with a host of improvements to her health, along with several broad-spectrum immunities. Coupled with higher tolerances to just about everything, and after a few years it just seemed normal. As for… whatever she was now, Shepard doubted any physical malady would ever bother her again. She hadn’t felt anything less than perfect the whole mission: Aside from injuries… and the mess upstairs. A human hand touched her arm, and she saw the sympathy in Karin’s steely eyes.

“She’ll be alright.” The doctor promised. “I won’t let anything happen to her.”

“Thanks, Karin.” She gave her a strained smile. “Sorry to get you up. I thought… I guess I thought the treatment meant this wouldn’t happen.”

“I take it she removed her gloves?” Her tone carried a hint of knowing cheekiness. “I did advise her against that.” She shook her head. “Youth always is impatient.”

“They’re beautiful… her hands.” She said, absent-minded. A lump formed in her throat.

She felt her rub her arm. “If there was a way I could skip her past this, I would.” She inhaled, finding her gaze. “But this is a good sign. It was a severe exposure; a response like this is to be expected.”

“Would’ve appreciated that heads-up beforehand.” Edge crept into her voice, but she kept it minimal.

“Suit scans show contamination of human skin oils, hair and saliva.” She glanced at her. “I doubt she regrets the time you shared together. Time that, if not for all our hard work, would’ve been impossible.”

“…I know.” She said the words aloud, just to hear them.

Blue eyes found the young woman, stirring slightly on the bed. She remembered that day they’d spent on Illium, enjoying the first bit of peace either had in weeks. The warmth of the park bench came back to her, the soft brush of her hips against hers. Girlhood giddiness. That day hadn’t been the only time Tali had talked about her life on the Fleet, or even her late mother. But hearing her recount that first day, the beginning of a lifetime separated from the world. Thirteen years… with a handful of moments not spent covered in rubber and fabric. A handful of moments she’d seen her own hands, her own body. Now she’d shared that with her, something unforgettable.

And this was her reward…

“It’s my fault…” Shepard said heavily, weary eyes on the sleeping quarian. “I should’ve taken things slower, steered us away from-”

“Jane, no!” Karin looked her dead in the eye. “Do not do this to yourself!”

Her sharp-edged warning held her stock-still for a moment. But the longer she held her there, the softer her face became. Soon the sternness of her reproach melted into the warmth of an old friend.

“I wish you could’ve seen her, the day we started planning all this. She hugged me so tight I thought we’d both take off when she started bouncing on those legs of hers.” She chuckled, mist in her eyes as she smiled. “I’ve never seen her so happy.” Shepard felt those soft, grey eyes on her again. “She wants this, Jane, whatever the hardships.”

She wanted to argue, to make it clear what happened. The sight of the woman she loved, in agony. It was burned into her mind. Now that same woman, so full of life, was lying still on a hospital bed. The last few hours had felt so carefree: Just the two of them, enjoying a miracle. Her lip trembled; all she wanted was for those bright eyes to open again: To see her stir, or let out a laboured curse. Some indication that this was normal, something she would obviously overcome. Seeing her just… lie there, it shook her.

“You should get some sleep.” The doctor nudged her gently. “We need you at your best, Commander.”

With a nod, she returned Karin’s touch, putting an appreciative hand on her shoulder. Shepard pulled herself away from Tali’s sleeping form. Guilt sunk its teeth deep in her gut, biting down hard. She didn’t let any of it through, keeping the pain behind her eyes. Her old friends knew her too well, and they wouldn’t miss the signs. With a hollow smile, she said her goodbyes to the older woman. Half-laced boots scuffed against metal flooring, the hiss of an airlock door ushering her out. The click of it shutting behind her had an air of finality to it.

“Shepard?” A singular voice called her name, one that made the muscles in her face tense. Sure enough she was standing there, between the mess hall table and the med-bay. Black sweats constituting nightwear, her raven hair pulled back in a ponytail. Through the mask of physical beauty, she could see familiar wear and tear.

“Something I can help you with, Miranda?” She asked, keeping her tone civil. But when she met her icy-blue eyes, she knew it wouldn’t be that simple.

“What’s happened to Tali?” She asked bluntly. “EDI said it was an emergency.”

“It’s a minor infection, Chakwas is looking her over now.” She spun the lie effortlessly.

“Sounds a bit more serious than a minor infection.” Miranda’s brow furrowed. “EDI’s report said you carried her here, that she could barely walk. Her location’s been unknown for the past several hours. I haven’t been able to get a hold of either of you.” The woman’s tone sharpened. “What the hell is going on?”

“Lawson, is now really the time for this?” Shepard brushed her off.

“The time?” Her lip curled. “This has been going on for weeks now. We’ve had holes in our security ever since the repairs were finished. Several cameras and sensors have remained disabled the whole time, despite diagnostics showing them as functional. We’ve also lost contact with the primary and secondary tracking beacons, our flight ops have resorted to self-reporting our position without them.”

“The tracking beacons are a risk anyway.” Shepard said coolly. “No matter how well encrypted, they still compromise our stealth capabilities. Plus the Normandy’s a small ship, with crew on every deck at all times. I hardly see how having a few cameras down threatens our internal security.”

“Oh, don’t you?” She scoffed. “So I suppose that incident with Jack was just bad luck, no cause for concern. Not to mention the other known criminals currently living on board. Some of whom openly hate Cerberus.” Miranda glanced toward the elevator. “Why the hell is there a decon unit in your floor partition? Why is every inch of it plated over, with a one-way lock hacked into the door controls?”

“I don’t see how my cabin is any of your business, Lawson.” Shepard leaned forward, shedding her cool demeanour. Her brows rose as she let out a huff.

“I’m not stupid, Shepard. It’s obviously been converted into a clean room.” She noted, stepping closer to her. “Tali requisitioned the parts herself, and the retrofit’s too well-done to be anyone else’s handiwork. Our funds are already strained on the treatment you’ve had Mordin develop for her. Which I believe you yourself said was long-term, to improve her overall health.” She looked past her into the med-bay. “Now she’s bedridden, and as usual I have no idea why.” Those icy-blue eyes were on her.

“So again, Commander, what the hell is going on?”

Shepard’s expression hardened, the boiling pit in her stomach wanting to lash out. She was close, dangerously close. But in that gap of silence, between her question and her expected answer, she noticed something. It was hidden behind her typical piercing stare: The kind of honesty that a façade like Miranda’s would never allow to come to the fore. Anyone else wouldn’t have even noticed it. But this wasn’t the first time she’d seen it in her. In fact, the last time she had, was the night Tali first came aboard. Beneath her biting questions, was uncertainty… fear. She was lost, cut adrift from schedule and orders. Tied to a mission not her own, and answering to a woman that hated everything she stood for. By the time her voice filled the silence, anger had soured to guilt.

“When was the last time you had a shower?” She asked. Miranda’s eyes softened.

“Excuse me?” She blinked in confusion, and growing agitation.

“This morning, yesterday?” She guessed, letting the weariness creep into her tone. “When?”

“This morning, before my shift.” She answered, brow raised. “How is this relevant?”

“Would you like to guess the last time Tali had one?”

She could see her realisation dawning.

“Ten months.” She answered the silence. “And in the meantime, she found out I was alive, after two years of grieving. She saw her friends die, horribly, on Haestrom. Now she’s here, risking not only her life, but also her whole future by working with Cerberus. The terrorists who murdered her people on the Idenna.”

She watched the hardness seep out of her, glancing over her shoulder.

“You’re right, I did have her retrofit the cabin. Because I wanted her to have somewhere she could feel safe. Somewhere she didn’t have to worry about infection, or Cerberus. Somewhere she could enjoy the feeling of water on her skin again.” She shrugged, never breaking eye contact. “Then after weeks of preparation, for the crime of enjoying a little time to herself, she’s down with an infection.”

She took a step towards her, holding her full attention.

“I appreciate that this isn’t a typical Cerberus operation, I do. But right now, my best friend is lying there, going through hell. So could you spare me the interrogation, please?” Shepard let the mask slip, showing her the torment she was enduring.

She watched Miranda swallow, regret drawn on her face. A long, sighing breath left her nose. She deflated, hunching forward in a show of poor posture she’d never seen in her.

“I’m sorry.” She said quietly. “I shouldn’t have assumed…” She trailed off, shaking her head. “…I haven’t been sleeping well lately. Seems it’s affecting my judgement.” Her self-criticism punctured the woman, lancing close enough to her heart that she almost told her. But now was not the time.

“Sit with me a minute?” She gestured to the nearby seats. Looking markedly more exhausted, Miranda gave a half-hearted nod. Sinking into the chair, she watched the Cerberus agent crash down beside her. The two of them focused on the far wall, letting the earlier bout slowly drain away. It was easier like this, side-by-side rather than at each other’s throats. Resting her chin on strained elbows, she took the lead. “Mission keeping you up?”

She heard her slump forward.

“Feels like we’re getting nowhere.” She muttered into her hands. “They could hit again any time, and we’re stuck out here with our thumbs up our arses.”

“Can’t do anything without actionable intel. Illusive Man give you any?” She asked, getting an angry groan for answer.

“He doesn’t want to risk it. Not after Horizon.” She dug her fingers into the skin on her face. “God damn it…”

“I know.” She nodded. “But the Normandy’s just one ship. We can’t police every colony. But we can strike at them. Once we’ve got a way to the Collector homeworld, we can stop all of this.”

“And until then, we’ll be running around, doing fucking favours.” She spat. “Wasting time.”

“It’s not a waste if it clears the team’s heads.” She offered, unsure of exactly what she hoped to convince her of. “Can’t be sure exactly what’s waiting for us beyond the Omega-Four Relay, but if it’s anything like Horizon was, we need everyone at their best. Not to mention it’s an opportunity for unit cohesion, like on Tuchanka with the thresher maw.”

“You think killing a giant worm is going to prepare us for the Collectors?” She asked with a chuckle. She shrugged, letting her levity pull her along.

“You never know.” She smiled. “I mean, worms, bugs. They’re the same thing, right?”

“Not even remotely.” She shook her head with an amused snort. For a moment, the two of them were content to let the humour hang in the air. But the silence of the empty mess hall soon pressed in on them again. Shepard’s mind drifted back to Tali, and the guilt grew… until Miranda spoke.

“What if… this doesn’t help them?” She asked, looking over at the table in front of her. “What if we’re pulling at threads we shouldn’t be?” She heard that familiar strain in her words. Saw it in her eyes.

“You mean Jacob.” Shepard saw her lips pull into a tight frown. “Think I made a mistake?” For a long moment, there was no answer.

“I don’t know.” Her voice was a hitching whisper. “…Maybe.”

She couldn’t pretend she hadn’t noticed the change. Things had been tense the past few weeks, and the person who once seemed like Shepard’s window in Cerberus was now gone. Evaporated in the muzzle flash of his father’s execution. That angry, joyless person who had damn near broken under the truth of it had remained. They’d barely been aboard an hour before Jacob had contacted the Illusive Man, slinging accusations. Of course the bastard had denied all of it. Not that it mattered. More than once, Shepard had heard the lieutenant talking with the crew, venting his distrust of Cerberus leadership. Something the commander agreed with. But it wasn’t the only change. She could see it poisoning those around her, and now she saw it in Miranda.

“He looks up to you, you know that?” She mumbled quietly. “He might not trust the Illusive man, or…” She exhaled. “…Cerberus, but he trusts you.” She played with her fingers. “They all do.”

“I don’t know.” Shepard admitted. “I nearly got them all killed.”

“But you didn’t blame anyone else.” She countered, hands gripping each other tight. “You owned your mistake, and kept us moving forward… at least as best we can.” Straightening up a little, she brushed a lock of raven hair from her face. “It’s something I’ve gotten used to, project leads passing the buck. Been the executive officer on multiple operations over the years, cleaned up my superiors’ messes more than once. Something like Horizon? Would’ve been written off a dozen different ways.” When her eyes met hers, they were softer now. “But not with you.”

She blew out a sigh, rubbing her hands down her face.

“I guess that’s why all this recent stuff’s been bothering me so much.” She said, composed again. “Not used to you being tactful.”

“Appreciate the back-handed compliment, Lawson.” She smiled, the first genuine one since she’d woken up. She huffed a chuckle herself, leaning back in her chair. Turning to face her, she glanced over to the fogged windows and that smile fell from her lips.

“I am sorry, Shepard. About Tali.” Her fingers brushed together again. “And… not just about tonight. I shouldn’t have said what I did on Freedom’s Progress, or when she came aboard. It’s just this mission, and all these unknowns, and…” She glanced at her chest. “Sometimes I forget you had a life, before we met.”

It was always there, just under the surface. That truth. She thought back to Alvarez, her tears slipping through metal fingers. She’d spend the rest of her life with the absence of what once was. She’d sympathised then, in that Alliance hospital. But only now did she truly understand what she’d lost.

Or at least… almost lost.

“We should get some sleep, while there’s still a couple hours left.”

She relented under the exhaustion, nodding in agreement. As she watched her return to her room, she saw a different woman: Someone who reminded her more than a little of herself. Perhaps she’d chosen to ignore it before, when it was just the crew she worried over. But hearing that same tone, for Tali, it was enough to shock her. A wall had collapsed between them, and she’d hardly even noticed. It only thickened the ice in her stomach, lying to her. Using Tali’s ordeal to open a gap in her armour.

Shepard took a breath, blocking out the guilt. She was doing this for Tali, for both of them. Miranda may have given her a second chance, but her master was not the person she was. After the Collectors, there would be a price to pay, for all of this. Despite how close things might become, she could never forget that.