Chapter 21: Broken Mirror

The light from the Normandy’s cargo bay poured in through the cabin windows of the shuttle. Shepard sat hunched in her seat, watching the warm colours pool around her boots. Her breather helmet was clasped between her gloved hands, having served as the thing to focus on during the trip back. Its skull-like visage stared up at her, empty visor mirroring the sheer rage that was boiling in her gut. She’d been silent nearly the whole way, her mind consumed by what Joker had told her over the radio.

 

After two weeks of hospitality, of extending a hand to this fucking criminal, she threw it all in Shepard’s face. The betrayal only added to what had been yet another failure. Three hours of scouting, killing and coordination had come to nothing. Okeer was dead, and with him any hope for intel about the Collectors. What had she lost by once again being too slow: Just some clue to their intentions, or the extent of their capabilities? Or was it something worse, like the location of their next target? Had her inability to complete a simple mission cost thousands more people their lives? A jolt of pain shot up her left arm as her fingers curled around the helmet. Underneath everything else, she barely even noticed it.

 

“Shepard?”

 

She suppressed a flinch, hearing Tali’s voice so close to her. Tali had sat by her side the whole trip back. After securing the clone’s gestation tank, the two of them had caught a ride back with the shuttle. The rest of the ground team had embarked in the Mako, leaving both the commander and her chief engineer completely alone. During the short flight, she’d been listening as Tali explained some of the more technical aspects of the cloning technology. The accented, lilting tone of her voice always took on a particular cadence whenever she dove into the nitty-gritty of things.

 

Unsurprisingly, Shepard lacked the knowledge to really keep up with it. It was all too easy for the quarian’s natural genius to slip out, going off into tangents about this or that. But hearing her talk went some way to help put the woman at ease. She fed off the logic of Tali’s problem-solving mind, using her meticulous analysis to help collect her own thoughts. Nodding along where she could, Shepard hoped Tali didn’t find her lack of eye contact to be dismissive. It was simply easier like this, eyes down on the helmet. It was just then she realised she hadn’t been following those last few minutes, shortly after suggesting Mordin take a look at the tank.

 

“Hmm… sorry, I was miles away.” Her apology came with the warmest smile she could manage.

 

“I asked if you were okay?” Tali’s question came with a look from her shining eyes. Shepard felt the façade splinter for just a moment. Of course, Tali had caught it too.

 

“Yeah, I’m fine. Just going over my battle plan.” Shepard gave the quarian a wink before getting up. But as the shuttle doors opened onto the cargo bay deck, she felt Tali’s hand around her arm.

 

“You should see Doctor Chakwas.” She suggested, glancing down at Shepard’s damaged gauntlet.

 

“I will, after I’ve talked with Jack.” Her light answer belied the anger slowly trickling into her mind. The convict was going to pay for this, and she had no intention of waiting. She went to leave, but Tali’s grip tightened.

 

“…I want you to go see Chakwas first.” She insisted, tilting her helmet. “Please.”

 

“Tali, I’m fine.” Her tone was more forceful now, the smile strained on her face. “Okay?”

 

Before She could say anything more, Shepard pulled away from her grasp. Tali’s hand slid down Shepard’s arm, catching the helmet in Shepard’s hand. The quarian clung to it for a moment, trying to keep her there. But Shepard had heard enough. She let the thing go, leaving her friend standing there in the cargo bay. Her helmet cradled in Tali’s arms. With a single-minded determination she stormed over to the elevator. As she stepped in, she caught sight of Tali as the doors closed, looking at her from across the room. There was worry in her eyes, and the feeling bit deeply into her. She grit her teeth as the small compartment ascended, trying to block out the thought.

 

There would be a chance to apologise later. Tali knew her, well enough to understand that this was just a bad time. That after the problem was dealt with, everything could calm down again. There would be time to talk. After all, she’d have to get her helmet back. When the doors opened, any lingering doubts were gone. She marched up to the guards outside Jack’s room, collecting the particulars of what happened from them. They were merely filling in the details, just more ammunition for her. With a stern nod, she stepped through the cargo hold door a second time, locking it behind her.

 

Déjà vu.

 

The once featureless room was different now. Things had been moved around, crates pushed to the walls or used as makeshift shelving. The foldout bed had been set up against the far wall, giving its occupant a full view of things. Empty food packets had been collecting near a small trashcan, picked clean. A couple sets of clothes were heaped on a crate. Overall not much had been added, but the change was obvious. In the short two weeks Jack had been here, she’d seen to making this small spot her own.

 

There was a sense of ease to it, something steady. Maybe she had just grown comfortable wasting Shepard’s time, draining her resources while she acclimatised to civilisation. But none of that mattered now. Shepard’s eyes left the facets of life in the room, locking on to the occupant instead. Jack was sitting behind a table, her hands cuffed to the chair. Another chair sat opposite her, no doubt for Shepard. All three were new, brought down for what was coming next.

 

For what was coming now.

 

“Rolston’s still unconscious.” Shepard spoke first, clenching her hand around the chair as she sat down. “The guys outside tell me you jumped him in the mess hall.”

 

Jack didn’t speak, but something was strange about her. Far from the snarling or the aloofness Shepard was expecting, she looked almost… concerned. She looked away for a second, like she was gathering her thoughts.

 

“You tried to take his key-card: Secure access to the computer core.” She leaned forward in her seat, her voice steady from years of experience, holding back rage. “Why?”

 

She could see it behind Jack’s brown eyes: Multiple responses, each one being tested and tossed aside. The gears in her head were turning, looking for some way out of the situation. It only made Shepard angrier. Adorned in her combat armour, the already large commander was far more intimidating. Without her biotics, Jack was no threat to her.

 

“Look…” Jack spoke up, letting out a sigh. “I wasn’t planning on getting into it with the guy. It was just meant to be a quick lift, have it back in his pocket before he even noticed.” Her lips betrayed her with a smirk. “Wasn’t expecting your fuckin’ P-A system to rat me out.”

 

“You think this shit is funny?” Shepard yelled, burning away the light response. “For two weeks I let you roam my ship: Eat my food, waste my time. I gave you the simplest instruction; a child could’ve followed it. Keep your hands off my crew!”

 

She could feel it at the back of her throat: Burning like acid, filling her mouth and drooling from the corners. The dam was so near to bursting. Jack kept her nerve, looking Shepard over with a calm appraisal. Afterward, she simply gave an aloof shrug.

 

That was it. Enraged, Shepard stood up, knocking the chair away. Slamming her hands down on the table, she loomed just inches from Jack.

 

“You’re a fucking lowlife: Miranda knew it, Garrus knew it. They begged me not to do this, to keep you locked up in this room. I gave you a chance… and you wasted it!” She snarled at Jack through her teeth.

 

“If that man wakes up with any permanent damage, I’ll drag you out of this room and I will fucking-”

 

The façade Jack had been maintaining up until now came crashing down. Fire flashed in her eyes, and she spat in Shepard’s face. The reaction was immediate and vicious. White-hot fury rang in the commander’s ears, vision blurring. Her chest heaved, deep breaths snorting in and out.

 

The woman’s gloved fist smashed against the side of Jack’s cheek, sending both Jack and the chair crashing to the floor.

 

“Did you think there wouldn’t be consequences?” Shepard roared down at her. “That I’d let a piece of shit like you get away with this?”

 

Surging through the pain, she wrenched the table aside, pulling the bound woman upright again. A purple bruise covered her left cheek, puffing her eye shut.

 

“All you had to do was follow one fucking rule!"

 

Shepard’s lip curled. She wanted to kill her, to put an end to the threat right here and now. What made Jack any different than the mercs who’d fell at the barrel of her gun? Her mind fogged: something deep inside was roaring, demanding to be indulged.

 

The feelings were only silenced when strained laughter came from the chair. The sound brought her back, rooting the woman in the once featureless room. Jack glared at Shepard through her open eye, relishing the moment.

 

“Y’know…” She started, watching Shepard step away. “When we first met, I thought you were just another Cerberus asshole. But I’ve been reading up on you, Shepard.” She coughed up Shepard’s name. “Big Alliance girl scout.” She shook her head, sneering at the press coverage.

 

She didn’t look at Jack. Shepard felt the anger, raging there at the back of her throat. Her wrist stung, and beneath it was something worse: A horrible, awful realisation. The tone in Jack’s voice, she’d heard it before. Something similar had spent countless hours eating away at her.

 

“But this is what you really are, isn’t it? When all the bullshit runs out.” Jack’s question slid through a cruel smile.

 

“Gotta admit, I didn’t think you had it in you.”

 

“Why did you want the key-card?” Shepard repeated the question, turning back to her.

 

This time there was no comeback. Instead Jack locked eyes with the woman. Try as she might, the commander couldn’t stop looking at the mark she’d left on Jack. It mocked her, just another example of how far she’d fallen. The realisation fought with the fire in her gut.

 

It howled and roared, demeaning her remorse as weakness. It drew forth images from the prison ship. Thousands of maniacs locked away for being the worst of the worst. Jack had been among them, so terrible that they’d frozen her. Even now one of her victims was unconscious on Shepard’s ship, someone it was her job to protect.

 

The anger began to harden into certainty, burying whatever part of her wanted to offer Jack even the slightest reprieve. But as the lead set into her decision, she noticed it. Behind the woman’s eye was something familiar. The same roiling clouds, the same howls and roars. She could see Jack’s expression soften, anger turning into uncertainty. She seemed smaller now, just a girl sitting in a cell. The sight made her sick, her offending hand balled up, trembling.

 

She had to push through it; she knew that.

 

“Let me make things clear for you.” Shepard’s voice was calm again, controlled. “You either cooperate, and answer my questions. Or I walk out that door, and it doesn’t open again until we reach the Citadel. After that, you’re C-Sec’s problem.”

 

The terms were clear, with no room to weasel out. Shepard knew what she’d offered Jack: an ultimatum. Resting her hands on the table, she waited for Jack’s response: A threat maybe, or another torrent of insults. Perhaps she’d dig at the truth again. That awful, dreaded truth. Whatever happened, she was certain this would be the last time they talked. Neither of them would fold. She’d get up and walk out. After that, the matter was closed: Another failure, resting on the pile. Another opportunity squandered. But instead, something unexpected happened. The fire didn’t return.

 

Jack’s anger remained inert, buried under consideration. She wasn’t looking at Shepard anymore, instead her gaze drifted to the window. There was nothing to see from where she was, just the ceiling of the cargo bay. But it was outside, beyond the confines of the room. She looked at it with a faraway stare, like she was somewhere else. For a moment Shepard could see tension in the woman’s face. Her lips trembled as she gazed beyond the glass.

 

Something inside Shepard ached, slowly digging into all that certainty. The roars and howls were gone now, replaced by whispers. Her realisation was there again. Jack’s gaze left the glass, and met hers for a moment. Something flashed across the convict’s face. The fear of a child, caught where she shouldn’t be. Then it was gone, replaced by the convict again.

 

“Fine.” Shepard stepped away from the table, drowning out the whispers. She turned to leave, ready to seal away the whole experience.

 

“…Wait.”

 

Her voice held Shepard there, inches from the door. Jack’s plea came through clenched teeth. Tinged with anger… and something else.

 

She stood there, not wanting to turn around. A quick tap of the panel and she was through. This whole ordeal would be over with. Why after the chance she’d given Jack, did she deserve another? People are who they are, for better or worse.

 

It may have been the truth, but it wasn’t enough.

 

Shepard gathered her chair off the floor, sitting down at eye-level with the convict. But the person across from her was someone else entirely. No more rage, not even a flicker of snark. Nursing her injury, the woman was at the end of her rope.

 

“I don’t… remember all of it.” Jack’s brow furrowed as she spoke. “But the first thing I ever saw was that…” She looked to the Cerberus logo on the wall. “…Over a cell door. My cell. I spent years in some kind of research facility. Drugs, torture, one big fucked up nightmare. I escaped, but your friends have been hunting me ever since.”

 

“Why are you telling me this?” She asked, feeling her anger flicker and die.

 

“I thought… maybe, there’d be something on me in your database: Files, I don't know. It’s not like I could just ask for them.”

 

“So instead you attack my crew for them.” She said coldly.

 

“I just wanted the fucking key-card!” She roared. “You got no idea what it’s like! I don’t have a name, or a fuckin’ birthday, I don’t know who I am!”

 

Jack was glaring at her again, air whistling through her teeth. Shepard had seen her angry before, but behind it had been the typical glower of a predator. The kind of person spoiling for a fight, wanting to skip the boring part and just settle things.

 

But now she saw something else, indignation. Jack wasn’t just lashing out, she was upset, genuinely upset. After all the posturing, all the slinking around and terse exchanges, Shepard had finally found the first bit of authentic desire. Jack’s predicament had a horrifically familiar feeling to it.

 

The commander pursed her lips. She wasn’t really considering this. People’s lives were at stake. Whatever advantage Jack could bring was massively outweighed by the risk. What if Karin was the next to be hurt, or Joker? What if it was Garrus, or Tali? She’d never forgive herself. God, if anything happened to her…

 

No. It didn’t matter what Jack’s reasons were, this was a bridge too far. But when she looked at the convict again, she could see the desperation naked on her face. It sunk into her chest, clawing at her heart. Jack was hardly the only one who had done something awful looking for answers.

 

“You’re confined to this room until further notice.” Shepard gave her judgement as she stood up from the chair.

 

She saw Jack’s gaze fall from hers, lingering on the table as she walked to the door. There was no final plea this time, no deal to be made. The fire was gone, from both of them.

 

Shepard lingered in the short engineering hallway. Even now she could feel that heat in her gut: The urge to lash out, to destroy the enemy. When her gauntlet had smashed against Jack’s face, sending her down like that, something dark had grinned inside her. It had been too easy, resorting to violence.

 

Never in all her years as a marine, let alone an officer, had she ever gotten that sensation from inflicting harm. She was meant to be better than that. Doing her best to mask her feelings, Shepard closed her eyes. Focusing on one of the many lessons Anderson had taught her during the N7 program: The difference between a soldier and any other thug.

 

Once a person was moulded for combat, the use of deadly force became as easy as breathing. You could always call upon it, the skill and composure to neutralise a threat. But the value of any soldier was his restraint. If you couldn’t trust yourself to remain steady, then how could anyone else? It had all been so clear back then, so obvious. There had been moments where the lines had blurred, like Torfan. But even there her duty had been a grim one. No pleasure to be taken in it. That restraint had been the guiding principle that had kept her on the right side of every battle.

 

And now it felt like that woman was slipping away.

 

Leaning against the glass, Shepard looked down on the cargo bay. She needed something to focus on, to help clear her head. Down below she could see a few people using their makeshift gym. Crewmen keeping busy, partaking in routine. It always helped to put her at ease. Shepard’s gaze wandered over to the newest edition to the rapidly filling compartment. The Blue Suns Mako was parked nearby. After being secured for flight, the job was now repainting it. Only one person had ever doted over that old thing so diligently before, and sure enough there he was.

 

Garrus was already hard at work, repainting their new tank. He seemed to be moving with a renewed fervour, no doubt happy to get those wretched merc colours off his baby. The commander dreaded the implications of having it on board again. Old arguments of who should drive echoed in her mind. Kaidan, Ash, Garrus, Tali, even Liara had raised her typically small voice to demand a chance behind the wheel. The only one who never asked was Wrex, mostly because he couldn’t hope to fit in the seat. The most heated of those old shouting matches had always been between the turian and the quarian.

 

How many times had she heard them argue? It had to be dozens, maybe hundreds of times. Not a week had gone by on the old Normandy without something flaring up. Ever since one particularly hair-pulling day in a broken elevator, the sound of raised reverbs and heightened helmet volume made her wince. Two hours stuck above the Citadel docks, listening to Garrus chastise Tali for the geth. But it didn’t stop there, because she shot right back with a jab about the genophage.

 

Once politics ran out, then it was personal. Supposed police records of quarian thieving, torture allegations within C-Sec. Fingers pointed back and forth and nonstop yelling. Thinking back on it, Shepard wondered if Garrus noticed that his mandibles wiggled when he was angry, or if Tali realised she bounced a little when she yelled. The memory was a warm one now, even if it was hell at the time.

 

She hadn’t realised just how much she missed it, those months aboard the old Normandy. Now it all felt like a lifetime ago. She looked around the cargo bay, but there was no sign of Tali. Her absence only added to the melancholy brewing inside her.

 

Shepard felt a twinge in her arm. Looking down at the half-chewed gauntlet, she flexed her fingers. Pain shot through them and blood dribbled out onto the floor. Getting into the elevator, the commander was somewhat glad for the aching. It helped anchor her to the moment, away from what was increasingly a hostile state of calm. Stepping out onto the Crew Deck, she headed toward the med-bay. The mess hall was home to a few off-duty crew, all of them too busy chatting to even notice her. It was something she’d grown to like, the more relaxed nature of her new ship. Being an Alliance officer had its perks, but it also meant that all eyes were on you wherever you went.

 

She glanced over towards Miranda’s office. No doubt she’d have to talk to her about what happened. Miranda would chew her out for it, and she’d deserve every word. But the “I told you so” could wait until afterward. Tapping her hand to the door’s control panel, Shepard stepped into the infirmary. Doctor Chakwas was standing over Crewman Rolston. The injured man was still unconscious: The commander supressed a grimace as Chakwas looked up to see her.

 

“Hello Commander.” Karin’s tone was always a little more professional with others in the room. She rested a data-pad on her desk as she approached.

 

“Hey Karin.” Shepard’s response quickly did away with the military decorum. “How’s he doing?”

 

“A little swelling, and he’ll have an egg there for a day or two.” She answered with a motherly look back to the patient. “But my scans don’t show any serious damage.”

 

“That’s a relief.” Shepard let out a breath, feeling the embers of her anger fading.

 

“Yes. Although despite the circumstances, Mr Rolston could use the rest.” Karin noted, her hand on her chin. “He hasn’t been sleeping recently, so I’m giving him the day off.”

 

“Why hasn’t he been sleeping?” Shepard saw the answer in Karin’s eyes. They were weary, like hers.

 

“He’s got family on New Canton: A wife and daughter. After the news about Ferris Fields…”

 

“…I see.” Shepard nodded. “I’ll have a talk with Miranda, see if we can arrange something.” There was an uneasy silence between them. The air was heavy. Karin’s eyes wandered, spotting the damaged gauntlet.

 

“Good lord Jane.” She shook her head, lifting up Shepard’s arm. “Were you mauled by something?”

 

“I-ah!” She stifled a cry, not wanting to disturb the patient. “I was actually, by a krogan.”

 

“A krogan? For heaven’s… sit down, get your kit off.” Karin pointed to the vacant bed, her voice stern.

 

Shepard cracked a smile, obeying the older woman. Fiddling with clasps and zippers, she quickly shed the chest plate and gauntlets, hissing in pain as she rolled up the sleeve of her under-suit. The fabric was torn, and deep bite-marks punctured the skin, leaving red meat peeking through. Clearly her gauntlet’s medi-gel dispensers had been damaged as well. The doctor looked over Shepard’s wounds, a clean set of disposable gloves snapped over her hands. Gently moving the injured limb a little, she ran her Omni-tool over it.

 

“The damn thing ambushed Tali and me while we were inside the enemy base. Guess I thought my armour would be a tougher meal for it than quarian enviro-suit.” She joked, giving the woman a shrug.

 

“I might’ve guessed.” She cocked and eyebrow. “You’re lucky you didn’t lose an arm over it… Tali’s alright then, still in one piece?”

 

“She is, but I’d like you to check her out anyway. She fell pretty hard during the fight. Probably just bruising, but better safe than sorry, right?”

 

“Something I wish you would take to heart.” Karin glared at her, covering the injuries with medi-gel. After grabbing a small capsule, she sprayed some foam over the forearm, batting away the commander’s free hand as it solidified into a cast.

 

“Hard to write reports like this, doc.” The woman complained.

 

“Leave it on for twenty-four hours, Jane!” She snapped. “Or so help me I will remand you to this room.”

 

“Yes ma’am.” Shepard snorted the reply as Karin sat down next to her. There was no stopping her now, the Omni-tool was out again.

 

“Since you’re here, let’s take a look at you.” Karin’s voice was softer, but no less commanding. “How have you been sleeping?”

 

“Uh, okay I guess? Probably not as much as I should be.” She admitted.

 

“Hmm… Any sensitivity to bright lights?” She continued, looking into Shepard’s eyes. “Muffled hearing, headaches?”

 

“These are some pretty pointed questions.” Her answer broke Karin’s professional trance.

 

“Miss Lawson sent me over the data from your… episode. I’ve just been looking it over again, trying to narrow down the cause.” She sounded different now, almost worried.

 

“Any luck?”

 

“No.” She huffed. “It’s been uniquely frustrating. Physically I can’t find the problem. Everything seems normal before and afterward. But there’s a spike of activity during the attack itself. You… haven’t experienced anything like that again, have you?”

 

“Nothing even close.” She answered, looking down at her free hand and studying the small glowing scars that streaked up her arm. “You don’t think it’s got something to do with my new… bits and pieces?”

 

The doctor gave a shrug. “You don’t have any neural implants, except for your amp of course. But… my medical expertise is limited to how your body is handling everything. The details of the cybernetics are somewhat out of my wheelhouse.”

 

“So I don’t suppose you could tell me when these scars might heal up?” She asked the question absent-mindedly.

 

“Actually, they have been healing.” Karin’s answer surprised her. “The process is slow, but I’ve noticed an uptick over the past couple of weeks.”

 

“Huh… Got a theory for that one?”

 

“Mind over matter?” She offered with a sincere smile. “Speaking from your body’s point of view, the issue is rejection. The studies I’ve read detail adverse reactions to cybernetics during extended periods of stress. Without relief, the body perceives the implants as a foreign threat. The results could be very serious.”

 

“You recommending a holiday for me, Karin?” She asked, half-joking.

 

“At some point, yes. But for now, try to find time to relax. If you maintain a healthy outlook, and avoid self-destructive behaviours, it will make the healing process that much easier.”

 

“Yeah… I hear you.” Shepard gave the woman a nod. The two of them sat there for a minute, the silence growing while Karin’s scanning finished up. She thought over the suggestion, trying to avoid dwelling on what just transpired on the deck below. She must’ve let the concern slip past her mask, because a sigh came from beside her.

 

“Also… I’ve been meaning to apologise.” Karin’s English voice was filled with solemn weight. Shepard looked to her, the upset clear on her face. “After we discovered the extent of your injuries… I should’ve kept calm, helped you through the shock. Instead I just bloody sat there like a stump.”

 

“It’s alright, Karin.” Shepard assured her. “Like you said, this has been hard on everyone. Finding out your friend’s got Christmas lights for insides, that’d be a lot for anyone to handle.” The joke softened the woman’s expression.

 

“Not you, it seems.”

 

“No…” She agreed, feeling the bile on her tongue as she lied to Karin. “…Not me.”

 

Without a left hand to work with, refitting her armour was a tricky affair. The commander did what she could, but mostly that was just standing there while her friend re-clasped her chest plate and right gauntlet. With the remaining gauntlet bundled up under her arm, Shepard bid the doctor farewell before taking a minute in the mess hall. The clunk of armour pieces on the table got a look from Gardner, but nothing more: One of the perks of command yet again.

 

The task of grabbing a quick-meal packet was made slower by the casted hand, leading to her cradling it in the crook of her arm while she ate. Warm after a microwave, the food was still bland. Whatever spice there was barely registered after so many times eating it. Instead Karin’s last words to her lingered in her mind. Despite the cybernetics, and all the time gone, Karin still saw her as the same woman.

 

The more she thought about it, the more it felt like she was lying to Karin, to everyone. I didn’t matter who looked back at her in the mirror anymore, three little words refused to leave her alone.

 

“Aberrant neural patterns.”

 

“Really savouring that instant stew, eh Shep?” Shepard’s eyes focused on the thief across from her, back in her hood with her chin on her hands, watching Shepard.

 

“Just meditating.” She gave Kasumi a forced grin. “Hoping to reach enlightenment… or at least some more flavour.”

 

“You seem a little tense.” Her assessment came without the typical sly smile.

 

“Just got some things on my mind.”

 

“Things like Jack?” She looked over to the med-bay, but didn’t add anything.

 

“I think she wants to join up.” Shepard scoffed.

 

“Seems convenient for her, given the circumstances.”

 

“It certainly does.” Shepard nodded, thinking over the convict’s words again.

 

“What’d you say?” Kasumi’s question caught her off guard.

 

“After she attacked one of my crew, tried to break into the ship’s computer? I can’t take a risk like that.” Shepard shrugged.

 

“What would she want with the ship’s computer?” The idea of Jack trying to work a terminal clearly tickled the thief.

 

“She was looking for files. Info related to her and Cerberus. Apparently they raised Jack in some kind of… torture camp.” Her answer killed the light atmosphere.

 

“God… that’s horrible.”

 

“Yeah. It wouldn’t surprise me with Cerberus, and the look she had… let’s just say I’ve seen it before, and it felt pretty genuine to me.”

 

“You think she wants revenge?”

 

“Definitely.” She nodded. “But there’s probably more to it than that.”

 

“So… you think she’s looking for closure?” Kasumi’s tone was completely different now. It was serious, even melancholy.

 

“I would be.” Shepard felt the words come out, stinging her ears. As if closure had helped her.

 

“You want to help her.” She said gently, her smile warm.

 

The sight of Jack’s face lit up in Shepard’s eyes. Scowling at her, the dark welt on Jack’s cheek from where Shepard had lost control. She’d watched the fire die out; the resistance falter and fade. For a moment, Jack had gotten closer to her goal than ever before in her life. To finding the answers, and putting a childhood of cruelty to right. No ulterior motive, no calculating method to her bargain. No trick.

 

She was just a person, failing after getting within arm’s reach of her goal. Had she seen it in Shepard: That there was a pang of understanding, of empathy with her plight? Maybe she knew it didn’t matter. That she’d crossed a line and the price would be losing her one chance. The way Jack had slumped down as Shepard left, it still sat there in the forefront of her mind.

 

“It doesn’t matter what I want.” She finally answered. “The mission takes priority.”

 

…It always did.
