Chapter 22: A Bad Hand

Shepard sat uncomfortably in the guest’s chair. The violence downstairs still clung to her mind, dulling most of the argument she’d just shared with her executive officer. Miranda’s office did little to lighten the mood. Not only had this room been the place she first lost control, but seemingly every time she went there was for more bad news. Thankfully this time there had been relatively little yelling. Her exchange with Jack had barely even come up. Instead the dark-haired woman’s ire had been squarely focused on Rolston’s condition.

 

She saw the rage in Miranda’s eyes, matching her own at the sight of an injured crewmember. For a moment she thought Miranda would go down to the convict’s room and tear her apart. It was a strange sight, coming from someone usually so well practised in her façade. Calm and collected on the mission, writing reports and even in the heat of sparring. But if anything happened to the crew, the woman was a tigress. Shepard thought back to their previous argument, with an eerily similar tone. Another time her damn myopia had hurt the people under her. By now Miranda had cooled off, fiddling at her personal cabinet.

 

“Want a drink?” Her Australian accent called out from behind the door.

 

“Sure.”

 

She returned with an intricately detailed glass bottle, holding a gleaming blue liquid inside. Asari liquor: a rare vintage from Thessia. Somehow that didn’t surprise Shepard at all. With perfect poise she poured a glass for her, before filling her own. Shepard peered into the glass for a moment, before drinking down what had to be fifty thousand credits of alcohol. The sensation was smooth, gently tugging her to the edge of calm. It left her there, oddly content while still keeping her wits. She looked over at Miranda, who was brushing her hair away with a finger as she sighed.

 

“What are we doing with her?” Miranda asked, voice still sharp from earlier.

 

“Like I said, she stays locked up.” Shepard felt heat under her skin.

 

Miranda gave a grunt and a nod. She stared daggers into her drinking glass, her jaw set.

 

“In the meantime, I want you to have a look through our database. Specifically anything related to biotic research.” Shepard’s request piqued her attention.

 

“What, why?” Her tone was more curious than indignant.

 

“It’s the reason she attacked Rolston, Jack wanted access to our files.”

 

“What the hell for?”

 

“Well according to her, your organisation was doing some study into child biotics, without their consent.” Shepard’s accusation got a sneer from the woman.

 

“Bullshit.”

 

“Maybe.” Shepard rolled the glass between her fingers. “But it’s hardly outside the realms of possibility… for Cerberus.”

 

The air between them thickened with tension. Miranda’s eyes did little to betray her thoughts, but she was definitely on alert. Her lips parted for a moment, looking to start another war of words. But nothing came; instead she refilled the glasses. Another mouthful of calming liquid slid down Shepard’s throat.

 

“You know Shepard, Cerberus gave you a second chance.” She mused, gazing into the blue pool in her glass. “Maybe you could do the same for us?”

 

Her suggestion made the commander’s teeth clench. It reminded Shepard that even after two weeks working together, developing a modicum of rapport, Miranda was still Cerberus underneath. She remembered the awful gasp Tali had let out, finding admiral Kahoku half-eaten by rachni. They’d murdered him, simply for asking questions. Things grew darker still when the horrors of Akuze slithered into her mind: Trained marines, torn apart by thresher maws. A one-in-a-million chance to have multiple maws hunting together, with the monstrous outcome it implied. She’d carried that day for years, only to have her illusions cast down by Toombs’ account. All that slaughter was just an experiment. These fucking people had watched her friends die like they were lab rats.

 

“You’re videos talked about studying me, learning everything there was to know?” She asked.

 

“That’s right.”

 

“So you know about Akuze?” Shepard locked eyes with her. The realisation was clear.

 

“Yes. A disgusting experiment, and one that we put an end to once we discovered what had happened.”

 

“So that’s it? You just disavow and wash your hands of it? How can it not bother you?” Her question was tinged with anger.

 

“It does bother me!” Miranda matched Shepard’s own indignation. “I’m not defending it, Shepard. Could you defend every operation the Alliance has sanctioned?”

 

The commander fell silent. She wasn’t sure if Miranda knew about Torfan, or if it had been hidden away in a classified file. But she still remembered it: Her last mission as a marine. Standing there in the briefing room, listening to the admiral detailing the assault that they were about to undertake. It felt like revenge, eight years in the making. The squints would finally pay, not just for Elysium, but for her family too.

 

Hearing her selection for squad leader was like music to her ears. Piling into a gunship, hugging the surface as they approached the batarian encampments, it was the greatest day of her life. The raid quickly turned into a death march for all of them. Men lost during every breach, around every corner. Clearing house after house, flushing out those responsible. It wasn’t long before they were all responsible. Shoot on sight, clear the hole, extreme prejudice. It’s the only way to kill a weed, tearing it up by the roots.

 

It felt good… for a while. But the satisfaction wasn’t what remained afterward.

 

“No.” She answered. “But the Alliance defends the human race. It helped shape our place in this galaxy. I may not agree with everything they’ve done, but I’ve seen first hand the people you’re defending. You can’t compare the two.”

 

“I’m not comparing-”

 

“Then why join them?” She cut in. “What did they offer you?”

 

Shepard saw the question pierce deep beneath Miranda’s armour. Malice danced across her blue eyes. She sat in her chair, glaring back at Shepard while her dextrous fingers clamped around the rim of her glass. The pressure from her grip was perfectly controlled, but intensifying under the fire Shepard had lit. Tiny hairline fractures began to snake outward from her fingertips, threatening to shatter the thing entirely. She breathed in, releasing the glass. Clasping her hands together, she exhaled before answering.

 

“Do you remember what you said to me, in the cargo bay?” She looked at Shepard. “About my eyes?”

 

“They used to be brown, before.” She answered. “You said someone didn’t like the change.”

 

“Not just someone.” Miranda corrected the woman. “…My father.”

 

Something changed in the Cerberus agent. She shrank a little, retreating into the chair. For a moment, the logo and the politics were completely gone. Just a woman remained.

 

“What happened?” Shepard asked. “He didn’t approve of the procedure?” Miranda let out a laugh.

 

“You’ve got it backwards, Shepard.” The woman shook her head. “He did this to me… all of it.”

 

“To you?”

 

“That’s right. All his wealth and influence wouldn’t settle for just flesh and blood. His daughter had to be perfect.”

 

Her expression twisted to hatred.

 

“The best schools, the best training… the best genes. Do you know he showed me the machine I was gestated in? He told me it was top-of-the-line.”

 

She chuckled mirthlessly. “I met my mother in a broom closet.”

 

“Jesus…”

 

“I spent years living to his schedules. He pushed my aptitude scores to their limits, punishing me for the slightest failure. If I didn’t meet expectations, I went under the needle for fine-tuning. The last round of it… gave me these.”

 

She pointed to her eyes.

 

“He was furious. One little smudge on his masterpiece, and that was all it took. Unfortunately for him, anger makes people stupid. I saw the chance to escape a lifetime of that nightmare, and I took it. But leaving only bought me time. Without Cerberus…”

 

Miranda leaned forward, looking drained from the memories. She poured another glass of the asari liquor, watching the blue liquid slowly leak through the tiny cracks. Fetching a tissue from the dispenser on her desk, she wiped away the mess, dumping the broken glass into the trashcan by her feet. Dejected, the woman simply sat there, shaking off the last of those dark thoughts. Shepard felt her heart ache for Miranda, and it reminded her of before. She considered airing her question, especially after this unexpected show of honesty. Perhaps they’d already shared enough?

 

“You feel like you owe them, for helping you?” She asked.

 

“I do owe them, but it’s not why I’m here.” She clarified.

 

“Humanity is facing its greatest threat, and no one else is doing anything to stop it.” Her tone became professional once more.

 

“Cerberus is willing to tackle the impossible, because the Illusive Man doesn’t know the meaning of the word. He just gives me what I need, and I do it.”

 

“The impossible…” Shepard echoed her sentiment, sapping the zeal from the woman.

 

Miranda didn’t offer a retort. They both knew what Shepard meant. Perhaps it was the alcohol, but there was a little flicker of empathy behind the woman’s eyes. Or maybe it was pity? Shepard couldn’t figure out which. The two of them sat there in silence. Without the focus of the mission, it seemed like neither of them knew what to say. But the longer the silence grew, the more hollow Miranda’s speech felt. After such a traumatic childhood, terrorists had scooped her up. Shepard didn’t dare say it, but Miranda’s story sounded more like one of opportunism than liberation. Escaping the clutches of one powerful man, just to fall into the hands of another. It revolted her.

 

After some time together, she knew there was more to the dark-haired woman than she first thought: Someone worth knowing, not just another terrorist. But then there would be a shift, and Miranda’s blue eyes would glaze over. The answers became rote; the passion was practiced. The person was gone. Someone had done this to her. Shepard’s thoughts turned inward. Had someone done this to her as well? Had Miranda done it to her? She dreaded the thought of becoming like that, unthinking in her loyalties. The more she dwelled on the months of surgery, the worse the feeling became. She felt a sliver of relief when Joker’s voice came in over the room’s speakers. She left Miranda in her seat, welcoming whatever the Illusive Man had called her for. It would be something else to focus on, something real.

 

 

 

Things were quiet down in Engineering. The typical rhythmic hum of the Normandy’s mass effect core echoed from above; mixed in with the myriad of beeps and whirrs from the surrounding machinery. For the small group of people nestled around the sub-deck table, it was easy to forget that they were all only a few meters from enough nuclear material and antimatter particles to be completely vaporised before the thought even finished travelling between neurons. Not that anyone really paid the idea any mind. It was just a part of life aboard a starship.

 

Instead the four poker players focused on the current pot, which had finally grown into something respectable. Peeking over her cards at the small pile of credit chits and cash, Tali tried to bring her brain back to strategy. She was holding an admittedly meagre hand, and Zaeed had that mean little grin on his face. No doubt the disagreeable mercenary had something worth playing. She glanced at Shepard’s helmet, sat on a spare stool as a joke. It stared back at her, empty.

 

“Fold.” Tali announced with a huff, putting the anxious onlookers to rest.

 

“Ah, no bloody fun.” Zaeed grunted with a sneer. “Figured your lot would be good at skyllian-five.”

 

“Stick around mate, she’ll rob you blind.” Ken lazily pointed a finger at the merc. “There’s a card-shark swimming around that bucket of hers.” The Scottish engineer turned and gave her a smile.

 

“Where’s your twin anyway?” Zaeed asked. “It’s her arse that’s ‘sposed to warm that stool, not Shepard’s C-pot.”

 

“Gabby’s up with Kasumi, doing… girl stuff.” Ken gave a frustrated shrug. “Besides, this one’s been crowin’ on about getting the big woman down here.” He added, pointing a thumb back at her.

 

“Shepard used to play with us back on the old Normandy.” Garrus intervened, his keen eyes catching Tali’s uncomfortable shifting. “Terrible player: Confident, but terrible. Couldn’t bluff to save her life. Easiest credits we ever made.” He flared his mandibles with a chuckle, getting a nod from the quarian.

 

“So where is she?” Zaeed asked.

 

“With Lawson, writing reports.” Garrus informed the bored-looking man.

 

“Is that what they call it these days?”

 

“Not to fret, the commander’s here with us in spirit.” Ken joked, stroking the helmet.

 

Tali looked the thing over again as her colleague’s hand left it. Her own hands slipped under the table, out of sight as the game continued. She remembered seeing Shepard clutch it tightly as they’d flown back to the Normandy. Without the helmet covering her human features, the distress had been obvious. Shepard had been tense, more so than usual. Her breathing was controlled, purposefully slowed and deep.

 

After what they’d talked about two weeks ago, it looked like the woman was taking her own advice. Tali had tried talking with her, just to lighten the mood a little. Looking over her scan data, the engineer had decided on a technical rundown from the krogan’s gestation pod. Thinking back on it now, Tali cursed herself silently. She had certainly been rambling, babbling on about minutia and boring the poor woman to death with it.

 

But as she talked, the creases in Shepard’s pale skin had softened. Her blue eyes had remained on the helmet, but their intensity had waned. She was calmer, her fingers loosening their grip. So Tali talked, prodding her for responses and trying to keep the worry from her commander’s mind. After two weeks of check-in’s, chats in the mess hall and warm smiles, Tali’s nightmares and flares of anxiety had come into focus. They lingered still, but couldn’t pierce beyond the moment. She knew the truth, and it kept her steady.

 

So when she saw the woman who had helped her through all that, her best friend, slowly calm to the sound of her voice: It had brought an invisible smile to the engineer’s lips. But then the shuttle had touched down. She’d seen the change, how Shepard had been consumed with anger. Her fingers found each other beneath the table, hands wringing at the memory. She shouldn’t have stopped Shepard; it wasn’t her place to step in like that. Shepard had enough things to think about, without friends second-guessing her decisions. But in that moment, she just couldn’t let go. So instead Shepard had.

 

She should’ve waited for Shepard, or gone to find her.

 

Tali closed her shining eyes, letting a breath out through her nose.

 

“Bastard!” Zaeed’s grouchy lament was welcome relief. He shook his head indignantly at the table, busted out.

 

“Caution’s not your strong suit, huh?” Garrus mused, mandibles spread wide. The merc shot him a withering look.

 

“Shut up, Vakarian.” He growled back. “Fucking piddly pot anyways.” Getting up from the table, Zaeed stormed back upstairs.

 

“Cuddly fellow, eh?” Ken mused, giving the helmet another affectionate rub. The motion intrigued the turian.

 

“What are you doing?” Garrus asked, raising a brow plate. For a moment Ken looked confused, before he smiled back.

 

“It’s for luck.” He answered confidently. “Never hurts for a new hand. And who’s luckier than Shepard?”

 

The grin faded from the human’s face when he saw Tali stiffen up. She cursed herself again, catching Garrus fixing the human with a very pointed glare. She didn’t want to ruin the mood, not over a stupid reflex.

 

“Uh, t-that is to say… I didn’t mean to…” Ken stammered under the weight of turian eyes.

 

“It’s okay.” Tali assured him. “Let’s keep playing.”

 

Ken nodded in hasty agreement, trying to ignore the looming alien in his periphery as he dealt out the cards. Garrus let out a snort as he picked up his hand, shaking his large head. Tali made an effort to graciously collect her own hand, giving her old friend a tilt of her helmet. Heeding her silent plea to back off, the sniper took the lead with the betting. After a few minutes, things had calmed down again. Instead of dwelling on his previous comment, the quarian instead tasked herself with looking for tells.

 

After months aboard the old Normandy, and a year with the marines on the Neema, she’d refined her skills as a card player. Long flights were easily held at bay most of the time for quarians. There was always her Omni-tool, with dozens of games and vids to peruse. The extranet was only a tap away, and beyond that… well. The thought made the young woman blush beneath the opaque visor. She hadn’t used her nerve stimulator in quite a while: At least not for fun. If it wasn’t for lack of time, then it was because her mind was still too muddled for thrills.

 

Keelah, the whole thing was a mess, even in her own head.

 

But beyond all the wonders of technology, a deck of cards was always a perfect fallback for long flights. Most of the Fleet’s games were local, and pretty impenetrable to outsiders. But she’d learned skyllian-five from the crew of the old Normandy, and had months to get good at it. Good enough to know she was looking a winning hand now. Two years of maturity had thankfully gotten rid of her over-eagerness, no more blowing her advantage through a giggle or unthinking bounce in her chair. Instead she kept serene, focusing on the aliens across from her.

 

Ken, like most humans, wore it all on his face. The corner of his mouth moved a little, changing his expression. Her colleague was nervous, the kind of nervous he usually got whenever Gabby teased him about something. Clutching his cards tight, he tried to play off the concern with small talk: Jokes and observations, though much tamer than usual. Combined with constant glances at Garrus, it was clear his upset was two-fold. The turian had threatened to break him in half with a look. She understood his intentions, but she didn’t appreciate them.

 

Eventually, cards were on the table. Her gut had been right. Ken’s bearded features twisted in horror as his all-in bluff came crashing down. Though the good-naturedness with which he took the defeat was unusual. Normally the man would buy back in with a spare shirt if he could. But this time, just a quip and he was gone, back upstairs. Garrus had been wiser, matching bets for a while before folding. Tali wondered if he was getting better at reading her, or if it was some turian conservatism. He let out a rumbling goodbye from his throat, the sound chasing Ken up the stairwell. After a sinister chuckle, he began to dole out the cards.

 

“You didn’t have to do that.” She said, letting annoyance mix with gratitude.

 

“He’s an asshole.” The turian responded, focused on the task. The quarian’s brow furrowed.

 

“…It was just a joke.” Tali’s tone was softer, more conciliatory. She could see it working on him.

 

“Yeah… maybe.” He conceded, reptilian eyes narrowing. “Didn’t look like you found it funny though.”

 

“I appreciate the thought, Garrus. But I’m okay.” She felt some relief as the turian nodded, dealing her last card.

 

The two of them settled in, across from one another. The quarian’s mind was immediately at work again, examining her friend for tells. Being a turian, Garrus’ face was difficult to discern feelings from at the best of times. Hard bony plates, with tough hide underneath did little for emoting. Aside from his eyes, the only other clues to the sniper’s feelings were his mandibles. They were pressed against his face, more from the tense conversation than a bad hand, she thought. Her own eyes drooped down; she hadn’t wanted to make things awkward.

 

Having shifted her stool closer to the table centre, she looked at the red-striped helmet sitting between them. For some reason beyond her immediate understanding, she copied Ken’s motions. Her gloved hand rested on the curved ceramic surface, rubbing the top affectionately. Despite the bitter taste the Scot’s joke had left in her mouth, the more abstract part of her mind wondered if it was true? She thought back to her embrace on Freedom’s Progress. The whole thing felt like a dream now. But in those aching days afterward, and the nightmare that happened on Haestrom, there Shepard was. She’d been so certain that those terrifying few minutes slumped beside Kal would be her last. It still bothered her, even now. But instead she woke up in Shepard’s arms, saved… again.

 

“How’d you end up with that anyway?” Garrus cocked a brow-plate, nodding to the helmet.

 

“Shepard… gave it to me.” Tali lied, trying her best to sound convincing. “It got damaged in the fighting. So I fixed it up.”

 

“Anything serious?”

 

“No. Just… a small crack, that’s all.” Her eyes lingered on the armour piece as she tossed in another credit chit.

 

“Do you think they’re still busy, up there?” She asked, changing the subject.

 

“Shepard and Lawson?” He considered it when the quarian nodded. “I’d say so, considering how much that damn woman likes the sound of her voice.”

 

“I don’t know how Shepard can work with that bosh’tet.” The engineer made no attempt to hide her venom.

 

“I’m sure the long hair and the… things on her chest make up for it.” Garrus sniggered, giving her a look. Tali’s eyes became glowing slits, and her lips pulled into a snarl, unconsciously baring her teeth. Then her brain caught up with the actual statement.

 

“The things on her chest? You mean breasts?” She asked, snorting at the turian’s phrasing.

 

“Right, breasts. Whatever.” He waved the correction away. “Spirits… mammals.”

 

Garrus’ flustered response got a noisy giggle out of her. Again she was reminded of how easy it was to forget the difference in species between them. Why would a reptilian people like turians consider breasts attractive? It wasn’t like they had any. But soon the humour wasn’t enough to keep her mind from wandering. Shepard had been spending a lot of time with that Cerberus woman. She’d only mentioned it in passing once, about some kind of training regimen the two of them had set up.

 

At the time she’d written it off as a necessity. Her commander had certainly been slower during their reunion, and the progress was very noticeable from back then. Their last mission had been a great example of the return of Shepard’s fighting prowess. It was important, not just for Shepard but the mission as well. Despite her disdain, Tali could admit Miranda’s own skill. Her helping Shepard with training made sense. But it also made Tali’s blood boil.

 

“You don’t think she’s… manipulating Shepard, do you?” Tali’s question got a look from Garrus.

 

“I’m sure she’s trying to.” He answered dismissively.

 

She remained silent, still wrapped up in the question.

 

“Tali.” Her attention snapped to him. “This is Shepard we’re talking about. I don’t think some tight clothes and a few workouts are going to sway her on Cerberus.”

 

The quarian nodded, the poker game forgotten. “It’s just… I’m worried about her.”

 

“Things always seem a little worse after a bad mission. But it happens, even to Shepard. Remember Virmire?”

 

Garrus’ example got a shudder from the young woman.

 

“…Yes.” Her answer was tinged with nostalgia.

 

“We all thought our luck had soured back then. And then the bastards on the council tried to trap us… it all looked pretty grim.”

 

In spite of himself, Garrus chuckled.

 

“Sure, things took a turn. But we got through it, Shepard got us through it.”

 

“I know.” Tali nodded. “Maybe Ken’s right. I mean hey, she came back from… from um…”

 

Perfect memory gripped her in its chilling claws. She felt her throat tighten around the half-hearted joke. Tali’s shining eyes stared past her turian friend, looking down burning corridors. Sirens blared in her ears, her heart pounding as sparks showered down on her suit. Humans littered the deck, burned and crushed. Then her body shook with the release of the escape shuttle. Her lungs screamed in agony and her hand clenched around a knife. Those last blurred moments of rage and pain, leading to months of emptiness.

 

“Tali?”

 

She hadn’t noticed her cards lying on the table, hands trembling. Garrus looked at her, his gaze one of understanding.

 

“I’m okay.” The engineer brushed the moment away, forcing the shake from her voice. She fumbled to collect them, avoiding her friend’s eyes on her. By the time she’d settled in again, a rumbling sigh found her.

 

“Trust me, things will turn around.” Garrus gave her a turian smile. “You’ll see.”

 

Tali gave her friend a nod, thankful for the opaque glass that hid the tears on her face. She wanted to believe him, she so desperately wanted to. But there was something missing in his voice, that arrogant certainty that always flavoured his words. They rang hollow, a sentiment made to cheer her up. He’d always been a better liar than she was, a trait the sniper had demonstrated on multiple occasions to sate his sense of humour. But it seemed that Shepard was his soft spot. Where the magic of his trick vanished.

 

It only worsened her own feelings, leaving the young woman trapped inside her own head. After Haestrom, she knew that the longer things were left unsaid, the worse it would be when they were. Shepard didn’t deserve that; she didn’t deserve any of this. She had to talk to Shepard, just find a minute alone where things could be figured out. Tali put her cards on the table, barley registering her friend’s surprise at the winning hand. She grabbed the helmet, determined to go.

 

After two years, Tali was tired of waiting. She left the winnings behind, heading up the stairwell and into the elevator. Her heart was racing again, like it had so long ago. That insufferable part of her mind was screaming in protest, warning her that this was a terrible idea. But she banished it. Getting out on the Crew Deck, she wheeled around the corner towards Miranda’s office. Fear began to mount, evaporating any plan she could think up. For just a moment her steps faltered, before she took the final stride and tapped the door’s hologram. The office door opened to a surprised Miss Lawson, who seemed just as lost for words as the engineer was.

 

Before either of them could speak, the Normandy’s P-A system crackled to life. Shepard’s voice came in loud and clear, along with their next destination.

 

Horizon.
