Chapter 29: Knight and Shadow

After a day of restless preparation, it was time. The last vestiges of afternoon sun clung to Illium’s horizon, bathing Nos Astra in orange light. Long shadows stretched across the streets of the alien metropolis, cast by the looming skyscrapers above. This late in the day, most of the city’s districts had already transformed. In place of orderly daytime life, there were pulsing beats and flashing neon. A seedier, more dangerous side emerged, one that better reflected life in the Terminus. Tourists and inhabitants from all over the lawless region came flocking here. Far away from rules and regulations, the nightlife catered to all interests.

 

But with such a massive market, there was inevitable violence. Far below the affluent hotels and trading floors was a battleground for gangs, with local police making for little more than clean up. Rising above the street-level grime, the forest of tapering towers held the planet’s elite. Beautiful fortresses that anyone with a firm hand on the corporate ladder could call home. But among even these colossal monuments to cutthroat business and deadly intrigue, one structure stood alone: The home of Nos Astra’s unofficial princess. A name emblazoned on the parent company of dozens of Illium’s largest brands.

 

The Dantius Towers.

 

Imperfect twins, only one of them had been completed. The other stood half-finished, bare girders jutting out and shrouded in scaffolding. It matched its sister in height all the way to a connecting bridge, full glory not yet realised. Now construction companies worked around the clock to finish the short-notice project. The greed and impatience of Nassana had proven to be a blessing for any would-be enemies. No matter how well defended, her castle was vulnerable. Efficiency demanded schedules, with a strict adherence. Both guard and worker shifts were constant, with the former violently policing the latter.

 

Two shuttles flew in low, avoiding the towers’ bristling air defences. Just a few hours earlier, Shepard and her team had gotten the call. A ship had departed from Nassana’s luxury cruiser, her personal transport. Flanked by escort gunships, it had been impossible to intercept en route. There had been no choice but to sit and wait, biding time as dusk approached.

 

Liara’s information had been accurate. Ever since touching down at her private landing pad, Nassana hadn’t left her penthouse. Perhaps word of an assassination had reached her early, and she’d decided her best refuge was atop her tower. Or maybe the ruthless asari was completely in the dark, simply looking to kick her feet up and bask in the city’s glow. It didn’t matter now. Shepard looked over the building’s schematics again, fine-tuning the insertion points for both teams. Tali was on Shepard’s shoulder, pointing out air vents and service tunnels.

 

“I’ve got muzzle flashes in the tower windows. Multiple floors.” Garrus reported, watching a view-screen. “Mercs must know something’s up.”

 

“Alright. Lawson, your team hits tower one. Give ‘em a show and we’ll radio once we’ve secured the target.” She was sharp in her orders.

 

“Understood, breaking away.” The Cerberus officer met her tone.

 

Banking sharply, the trailing shuttle headed for the completed tower. The plan was a simple one; Miranda’s team would punch through into the lower levels of Tower One, right under Nassana’s feet. Of the two towers, it was better secured, but less defended. The bulk of the Eclipse forces were concentrated in Tower Two, where ongoing construction left dozens of entry points.

 

With Zaeed, Jacob, and most importantly Grunt in tow, she was likely to cause a hell of a racket. With an obvious attack underway, the mercs would scramble to respond. They would have no choice but to split their forces, thinning out enemy numbers for the second team: Shepard’s team. Garrus and Tali were infiltration specialists, as was the commander. But a fourth member now joined the three of them.

 

Samara had kept silent the whole flight. She peered out through the virtual window, watching the skies for any threats. Shepard had noticed Tali stealing glances at the justicar, with a very atypical tension in her stance. Something about the asari warrior unnerved her, forced the engineer to inch just a little closer to Shepard. Shepard could sense it too.

 

Something about their new ally was different than the night before. Her posture and serenity remained, but underneath was a cold confidence. She didn’t carry a single firearm, instead an unusual weapon hung from her hip. A sword. Shepard could barely believe it, she’d insisted on offering her pistol at least. But Samara had declined, her answer stifling any attempt to argue.

 

Pulling up quickly to one of the exposed balconies, the squad of four disembarked. Their boots had barely touched solid ground before gunfire sounded in the unfinished lobby. There was movement ahead; silhouettes lit up by blue muzzle flashes. Converging on the doorway, they took a closer look. Dim light caught the white finish of LOKI robots, their machine pistols chattering at a group of unarmed night workers. Without a word Tali hacked into them, bringing the machines to a standstill. The squad made their way inside, brushing past the inert robots to assess the situation. They stopped fast at the sight.

 

It was a massacre. The bodies of nearly two-dozen salarians lay crumpled on the unfinished metal floor. Buzzing work lamps illuminated the dusty air, covering the scene in a haze. A pool of green blood lazily dribbled away from the corpses, some of it spattered across the nearby walls. The smell was enough to turn Shepard’s stomach. She could see the horrid contrast; a bright, almost yellow arterial spray coated the nearby door.

 

The blood that now clung to her boots was already beginning to darken into an olive brown. These poor people didn’t all die at once. Some of them had been dragged here, forced to join the others in this execution. There were no survivors, not that she needed a first-hand account. It was clear Nassana knew about Thane, and she was removing any “mitigating factors”.

 

After securing an access token from one of the bodies, Shepard led her squad upstairs. The others kept tight to her flanks, weapons at the ready. Most of the building’s interior was still under construction, with cramped worker hallways feeding into larger, unfinished rooms. There were spare materials and leftover tools scattered everywhere, breaking up sightlines.

 

Instead, she endeavoured to listen ahead, a task made difficult by the echoes of gunfire from above. The mercenaries were still cleaning house, and not just in this tower. Several muffled explosions could be heard from below, bright flashes escaping the adjacent tower’s windows. By now Tali had tapped into the enemy radio, and they were already buzzing about the incursion in Tower One. Reinforcements were on their way, good news for the plan.

 

After two empty floors, loud talking carried from up ahead. Two sets of voices, one of them the obvious garbled helmet audio of soldiers. The second was higher, wavering with fear. Soon the talking became shouting, and Shepard picked up the pace. Rounding the corner, her squad came eye-to-eye with the Eclipse guards. They outnumbered her squad more than two to one, clad in yellow and black armour.

 

They’d rounded up a few salarians, holding them at gunpoint. But now they were forgotten, and all weapons were trained on the intruders. She watched twitchy barrels train from her to this friends, before suddenly noticing the justicar. Samara stepped forward, her left hand resting on her scabbard. One of the asari troopers stared at her, wide-eyed. They all watched in amazement as she drew the silver blade, clutching it tightly in her right hand.

 

“Goddess… That’s – open fire!”

 

The asari’s order was punctuated by a scream. Samara blazed with blue light, yanking the woman with a biotic field. Hurtling through the air, the sound was cut short as the justicar swung her sword. With seemingly impossible strength, she sliced right through the armoured trooper, bisecting the woman. Her body crashed down on the floor in two pieces, blue blood and organs spilling out. The other mercs just stood there, dumbstruck. Shepard and her friends were the same, struggling to process what they’d just witnessed. Then Samara lashed out again, crushing another trooper against a wall.

 

Gunfire erupted, flashing tracers zipping back and forth. Tali and Garrus dove into cover, sending out rifle and pistol fire. Summoning her own biotics, Shepard charged in. She slammed into a merc, crumpling his chest-plate before finishing him off with a shotgun blast. The trooper next to him barely had time to raise his weapon before a silver streak passed through his arm, severing it. Grabbing the injured solider by the throat, Samara let out a biotic blast from her hand. Trapped in her grasp, the force was enough to blow him into pieces. Caught off guard, the last mercs were brought down, helmets ripped open by headshots.

 

Coming down off the adrenaline, Shepard noticed a ring of blood around her body. Stretching off the side was what she could only describe as a “shadow” of clean floor. It suddenly dawned on her, that the blood spray had been so intense as to activate her kinetic barrier. The centre of the room was completely covered in a mix of crimson and blue spray. It was on the walls, and the ceiling. She saw her friends coming to join them. Tali’s eyes were shining wide, and Garrus’ mandibles splayed in disbelief: Just a few seconds ago there had been a squad of nine Eclipse mercs in the room.

 

Now most of them were unrecognisable. Samara had slain four of them herself, all while being close enough to touch. The justicar was completely unscathed, except for the blood covering her armour. She barely seemed to notice. Her face held that calm serenity they had on the restaurant balcony. Shepard looked back at the dead asari, cut in two. The sound of her scream, pitching higher and higher as her skull was opened up, it made her shudder.

 

“P-please, don’t hurt us!” One of the salarians whimpered, bringing Shepard’s attention back. Samara had already approached them.

 

“Be calm.” She said gently, kneeling down to look him in the eye. “You are safe now.” Her fingers brushed his, and the salarian’s trembling stopped. She stayed there beside him, staring into his large, vacant eyes.

 

“…Calm.” He repeated the word, as if in a trance. As Shepard approached, Samara got to her feet. She traded a look with Shepard before stepping aside. The salarian looked at the commander, lucid again. “Thank you.” His voice broke. “Thank you so much.”

 

“It’s alright.” She reassured the group of night workers. “You should be safe on the lower floors, but I need to reach Nassana. Is there a faster way up?”

 

“There’s a… s-service elevator, not far from here.” The salarian was still gathering himself. “It’ll take you up to the sky-bridge. The roofing hasn’t been installed yet, be careful crossing it.” Shepard gave him a nod of thanks.

 

The squad set off again, after ushering the workers to safety. The bloody carnage they had left behind was a stark contrast to the empty, metal rooms waiting ahead. Keeping her eyes peeled, Shepard took point. The gunfire above them had mostly stopped, though tension still clung tightly to the air. Soon there were more bodies, more night shift workers. Some of them were slumped down in storage closets, trying their best to hide from the guards. Others had been run down, left lying on their stomachs. The Eclipse were clearly thorough, all the victims had been shot in the head, just to be sure.

 

The worst of it came as they got close to the elevator. There was blood staining the floor, not enough to be fatal. The dark green liquid had been stepped in, running footprints led away from one of the corners. Someone had been found. Shepard felt a pit in her stomach, tracking the prints and the bullet holes toward their destination. Right near the elevator was an open window. Her heart sank at the sight of blood smeared on the edge. The poor bastard hadn’t wanted to die like an animal.

 

Regrouping inside, Tali was quick to hack the controls. The elevator doors sealed shut, and the whole thing ascended skyward. For a few minutes, things were quiet. Garrus took the opportunity to check his rifle, cycling in a new thermal clip. Samara stood like a sentinel, simply waiting. Shepard leaned against the wall, taking in a calming breath. Seeing innocent people killed like that, brought back more than a few memories.

 

Mostly it reminded her of Eden Prime, though at least the mercs had the decency not to desecrate the dead. There were other memories, older still. The kind she wouldn’t let out on a mission. She set her jaw, and tried to focus on something else. Getting up, she moved to join Tali by the elevator window. The quarian was looking out at the city, doing her best to hide her disgust. Shepard touched her shoulder, meeting the quarian’s gaze. She could see memories there too.

 

The upper floors of Tower Two were a far cry from the deserted levels below. After taking down a lone sentry, it became clear the area was crawling with guards. Not only that, but things in Tower One were starting to turn bad. Miranda’s voice came over the radio, partially unreadable through the battle around her. Most of the details were hard to pick out, but what was clear was the tone. Things were getting desperate, and Eclipse were converging on them fast.

 

Shepard and her squad pushed on, moving and shooting in quick skirmishes. Carving a path to the sky-bridge, they only stopped to engage enemy forces directly between them and the objective. She fought back the urge to sniff out the other mercs, to make them pay for what they’d done. The longer she took to reach Nassana, the greater the chance she’d flee. The strain was clear on Samara’s face too. She gripped her sword tightly, viciously striking down the few enemies in her way.

 

Before long, the half-finished interiors of the tower gave way to open sky. The last remains of dusk were gone now, replaced by the dim glow of stars overhead. A glance over the edge of the exposed floor showed Nos Astra in blazing light. It almost seemed brighter without the sun. Taking in the vista was enough to distract Shepard’s mind from the dizzying height. She hadn’t really appreciated just how big these buildings truly were. The wind whipped through the incomplete structure, buffeting the squad slightly. All of them were safely beneath insulated breathers, save for Samara.

 

Though the justicar payed the uncomfortable change no mind. She watched ahead, keen white eyes fixed on the far tower. They were close now. Moving carefully, the squad hugged the inner wall. There was no resistance as they made their way to the bridge. Something about it was scratching at the back of Shepard’s head. There was definitely something wrong. Her mind wandered to other sights and sounds. Faint noises just behind the walls, or overhead: Bursts of gunfire falling silent. Someone was nearby, working in tandem with her squad. It had to be Thane.

 

Bracing against another onslaught of wind, Shepard brought the squad to a halt: Before them stretched a good one hundred meters of completely exposed bridge. Clearly it had been a recent development, the unpainted metal bore little resemblance to the shining finish on the far tower. Waist-high walls flanked the narrow passage, adorned with support struts for the missing roof. It looked like Nassana’s orders had been last minute; there were still piles of materials and cargo crates left scattered. Taking a moment to hide, the four of them huddled down in the shadows.

 

A quick glance to Garrus was enough to get his scope out. While the turian scanned the far side, Tali brought up the towers’ blueprints. Sure enough, this was the only way in from the upper levels. Everything below on Tower One had already been sealed, impossible to break through for Miranda’s team. Eclipse must have figured out the ruse, the sounds of battle below had dropped away. Shepard knew there wasn’t much time before the whole damn company was back up here, ready to pincer them from both sides. She’d have to break through this chokepoint; there was no other way.

 

“What are we looking at?” She asked, looking up at Garrus.

 

“They’ve got two platoons over there. Snipers, biotics, you name it.” The turian grunted. “Hmm… automated turrets, LOKI bots. I think they’re expecting company.”

 

“Bots and turrets…” Shepard mused, turning to Tali. “Good news?”

 

“Give me a minute to sync up.” She nodded, on her Omni-tool. “Garrus, I’ll need your scope-feed.”

 

The two combat engineers were quick to get ready, swapping data back and forth. Typical for the quarian genius, a minute was generous. No sooner had she made visual contact with the targets, than she was diving into their systems. Shepard watched her tapping at the device, slipping right past the Eclipse firewalls. Garrus had moved to cover just opposite them, lining up his long rifle. Drawing her own weapon, the commander kept close to Tali. They’d always covered each other; it was more a reflex than tactics now.

 

Samara held fast at her position, calm and ready. A blink of red caught Shepard’s eye, followed by a mumbled quarian curse. Suddenly enemy radio chatter exploded. They hadn’t made a direct fix yet, but their guess was far too close for comfort. She grew antsy listening to the squad callouts, making their way toward them, floor by floor. Movement came from across the bridge; a squad of mercs had broken ranks to investigate. The words were forming in her mouth, a plea to hurry when she saw Tali’s light up.

 

“Done.” She reported, drawing her gun. “On your go.”

 

Garbled shouts carried over the racing wind. The enemy squad had nearly closed the distance. Six flashlights advanced, each one scanning the relative gloom. Shepard took a deep, final breath. Her eyes met those of old friends, an entire plan conveyed in less than a second. Finally they caught the justicar’s at Shepard’s side. Her blade glinted as it left the scabbard.

 

Together the two of them broke from cover, making a show of themselves. All the flashlights converged, pointed right at them. Behind the first group, more were amassing: Robots, soldiers and heavy guns beyond. The lead merc shouted an order, the words already lost to the howling air. Not that it mattered. The trap was sprung.

 

Throwing her arm up, Shepard sent a line of shockwaves barrelling into the squad. Four were flung over the edge as the last two hit the walls. The whole bridge came alive with gunfire. Hundreds of rounds plinked harmlessly against Samara’s incredible barrier. The blue field of light covered both of them. Booming sniper shots rang out from behind, while ahead the LOKIs began mindlessly shooting their comrades. Concentrated fire jerked into every direction, focused on multiple threats at once.

 

Screaming into the next squad, Shepard’s charge knocked two more troopers over the edge. Assault rifle fire ripped into the armour of another trooper, before his comrades were sent flying overhead. She turned to catch them sliced to pieces by the justicar’s blade. Samara caught up fast, with Shepard’s friends in tow.

 

Biotic blasts came their way, with two asari troopers working together. The commander charged again, her sudden leap forward throwing them off. A biotic punch twisted the first one’s neck, while the second barely had time to react. Tali sprinted into range, pouncing on the asari and shooting her point blank. Garrus’ shots cracked past, and far off silhouettes toppled over.

 

Catapulting herself into battle, Samara came down in the middle of twelve combatants. She didn’t even bother with weapons. Her body began to blaze with blue light. The display was enough to cause the already panicked troopers to hesitate. Instinctively, Shepard reached out, pulling Tali into her arms. Shepard’s biotic barrier flared up just as the massive blast wave hit them. The whole thing was over in an instant, but the tremendous force had stripped the shielding from her completely. The justicar stood alone, her foes launched screaming to their deaths.

 

Still shaky from the impact, the two friends disentangled. Garrus had already caught up, his reaction stuck somewhere between shock and amusement. Further up, the hacked turrets ceased fire. A few moments of windswept silence passed. The battle was over.

 

There wasn’t any time to waste, and Shepard took point across the bridge. Tali’s skills had once again proved invaluable; the automated defences had done their job. The remaining mercs had been caught in a brutal crossfire, with no room to manoeuvre. Set upon from all sides, most of the bodies were clumped together, riddled with bullets.

 

Without any opposition, the squad entered the palatial confines of Tower One. A stark contrast to its sister, the inside was decorated with lavish embellishment: A place high above the everyday world, where ageless power brokers shaped the galaxy. The sheer narcissism on display was staggering.

 

Moving past interior water features and colourful murals, they quickly came across a set of heavy doors. A last ditch attempt to keep them out, along with the real threat. They were locked tight, fitted with the latest security system on the market. Though still little more than few minutes of challenge for Shepard’s genius engineer.

 

After some annoyed mumbling and tapping fingers, Tali had root access to the tower. The remaining automated systems were re-tasked, throwing a wrench into any counterattack from Eclipse. With the doors unlocked, Shepard led the others into an equally tacky office. Standing behind the designer desk, flanked by a retinue of guards, was Nassana Dantius herself. Two years had done little to dampen the asari’s beauty, or the sinister flame behind her eyes. Though clearly Shepard’s presence had not been expected.

 

“Shepard…?” Nassana spoke her name in shock. “But… you’re dead.”

 

“I got better.” Shepard gave her a shrug. “I appreciate the concern, though.”

 

“Very funny.” Her eyes narrowed, a snarl curling on her lip. “Who sent you? Was it Clenthea, Zeletaria? Did my runt of a half-sister finally scrape together enough credits for a professional?”

 

“Sorry to disappoint, but I didn’t come here to kill you.” Shepard shook her head, holding her gaze. “Though after seeing what your men did downstairs, I might just reconsider.”

 

Tali and Garrus had the guards lined up in their sights. Samara remained still, her sword still sheathed. Shepard’s threat sent a nervous twinge through the room; Nassana’s guards were visibly shaken by the prospect of fighting. No doubt they’d spent the last few minutes listening to their buddies outside.

 

“Since we’re still talking, I’m guessing you want something.” Nassana smirked. “Come looking for credits? Name your price, we’ll make this problem go away.”

 

“You’re assassin, I wanna know where she is.” Shepard countered, getting a look of surprise in return.

 

“What? How the hell do you…?” Her eyes locked on Samara. “…Ah, I see you’ve brought the bitch herself.” Nassana’s snarl became a cruel grin. “Oh yes, she told me all about you, justicar.”

 

“Where is she?” Samara stepped forward, hand clasped on the hilt of her sword.

 

“I’m afraid it’s too late for that.” Nassana shook her head. “Your little runaway isn’t here anymore.”

 

“No way you’d cut her loose without a contingency.” Shepard interjected. “You know where she is, and you’re going to tell us.”

 

“Am I now?”

 

“Your life depends on it.” Her warning was received gleefully.

 

“Then it sounds like we have a deal on our hands. Before I say anything, I want some guarantees! First-”

 

Nassana’s bargain was cut off by the flinching of her guards, one of them jerking at a noise. A new wave of tension flooded over the two groups. Shepard could already guess at the source, but she kept her head on a swivel nonetheless. Her friends followed suit, tightening formation. Samara ignored it, entirely focused on the woman in front of her. Frustrated, Nassana pointed her closest guard to one of the doorways. She gave a warning glare, clearly sensing the danger.

 

The other guards were growing more and more fidgety. They were switching targets, crossing their sightlines between the human, quarian and turian. One of them was completely fixated on the justicar, terrified to take his eyes off her for even a second. Hands started to tremble, and itchy fingers moved closer towards a fatal accident. Despite the ever-thickening atmosphere, Nassana kept her cruel gaze firmly on Shepard, like she was trying to stare her down. Her hand was resting on a pistol, eager for the moment all hell broke loose.

 

There was movement, a shadow by the window. Something dropped down into view, just beyond… no, inside the room. The commander felt that familiar shiver run up her spine, the kind she got before every ambush. Suddenly a shape appeared, moving faster than the eye could follow. A blur of green and black, its arms were around the first guard’s neck.

 

The sickening snap of vertebrae echoed in the open room. The second guard flinched in surprise, wheeling around to confront the intruder. A fist shot out from the shadow, crushing the man’s throat in a savage blow. He fell to the ground, choking and convulsing. The third guard barely turned her head before the loud clack of a silenced pistol blew a hole through it.

 

Everything had happened so fast, there’d hardly been time to process it. Adrenaline surged, and the world slowed in Shepard’s eyes. She saw the assassin clearly, a drell with brilliant green scales. Thane. His focus was locked on Nassana, pistol levelled. There was nothing Shepard could do, not in the time that was left.

 

But before the final shot could be made, the assassin froze in place. Nobody had noticed, but Samara had reacted immediately. In less than a second, she’d encased him in a stasis field before turning on her real prize. She grabbed Nassana by the wrist, crushing it until the pistol fell from the woman’s hand. Pinning the executive to the table, she held her there by the throat.

 

“Where is she?” Samara demanded. The serenity in her voice was still there, but underneath was an inflection so threatening it was paralysing.

 

“…Go to hell!” Nassana hissed back, gritting her teeth. “You’ll never-”

 

Her insult disappeared into a howling scream of pain. Samara’s skin crackled with blue light, her eyes were consumed by inky blackness. Nassana’s were the same, voids of pure terror. She struggled and wailed under the justicar’s grip, unable to escape. Jumbled, slurred pleas for mercy came from her lips, as if the woman were trapped within a nightmare. Soon the wails and screams grew hoarse, degenerating into moans and whimpers as she went limp.

 

Still Samara held her there, forcefully joined until there was no longer any hint of resistance. Tears and drool began to leak from the woman’s face, with little more than occasional twitches to show any life at all. The horrific spectacle had stunned the three friends, but for Shepard the effect had worn off. She moved towards the table, but before she could intervene, the biotic energy faded. The justicar’s white eyes returned, and she gently released her captive. Drawing her sword, she pressed the tip to Nassana’s chest.

 

“Find peace in the embrace of the Goddess.” Her voice was serene again, plunging the blade deep inside. A last gurgling breath escaped Nassana before she slumped down, lifeless.

 

With the deed done, the assassin was released from stasis. Suddenly realising the situation, Shepard and her friends locked weapons. Thane didn’t respond in kind, instead holstering his pistol. Making no sudden movements, he walked over to the asari executive’s body. He seemed to be inspecting her.

 

“My apologies.” Samara bowed her head, voice rueful. “It was not my intention to cheat you of your goal.”

 

“The job is done, regardless.” Thane said calmly.

 

“You were here for Nassana?” Shepard asked, getting a nod in reply.

 

“I was.” Thane’s low voice vibrated. “She… was to be my last job.” For a moment he looked lost in thought. “I must admit this outcome is most intriguing. I wasn’t sure how far you’d go to find me.”

 

“You knew I was looking for you?” Shepard felt a sliver of frustration catch her tongue.

 

“I was informed of Liara T’Soni’s interest in me. Her motivations were unclear… until I saw you at the hotel, Commander Shepard.”

 

“You were watching me.”

 

“One doesn’t take a dead Spectre lightly. Given the circumstances, I thought it best to keep my distance. However, it seems impossible to deny your authenticity now. You have my attention, Commander.”

 

“I’m on a critical mission. You’ve heard about the colony abductions over the last few months: Freedom’s Progress, Horizon? It’s the work of the Collectors. They’ve taken thousands of people, I’m putting together a team to stop them for good.” Shepard saw a glint of curiosity in Thane’s dark eyes.

 

“I see. Attacking the Collectors would require passing through the Omega-Four Relay, no ship has ever returned from doing so.”

 

“They told me it was impossible to get to Ilos too.” Shepard’s spark of pride soon faded. “…But yeah, no guarantees we’re coming back.”

 

“Low survival odds don’t concern me… not anymore.” Thane mused quietly. “Too many innocent people died today. I wasn’t fast enough, and I must atone for that.” He extended a hand to the commander, looking the woman in the eye. “I will work for you Shepard, no charge.”

 

Taking Thane’s hand, Shepard shook it firmly. After the exhibition of deadly, controlled attacks the assassin had displayed, there was no doubt as to his effectiveness. She wasn’t sure if she could trust this hired killer, but something inexplicable put the woman at ease. There was a weight there, something absent in your typical merc. It was a weight she recognised all too well.
