Chapter 33: Personal Matters

The savoury smell of hot food permeated the Crew Deck. Steam billowed up from a large pot, stirred diligently by the resident chef-in-training. Shepard gave Jack a look of appreciation as she ladled out the commander’s serving. Her typically abrasive scowl was lost in what looked like genuine concentration on the task at hand. It was a minor miracle. Shepard was near the end of the line, with only Miranda and Samara left to be served. Everyone else was already gathered around the mess hall’s main table. A few more seats had been pulled out of storage to accommodate the large ground team. It was later than the typical dinnertime; most of the crew had either turned in or gone back to their stations. But she’d been happy to eat a little later, if it meant everyone got the chance to do so together. If she was honest, seeing so many people eating and chatting helped calm her. Making her way to the middle of the table, her favourite spot sat vacant as usual. Flanked on both sides by blue and purple guardians, no one dared take it.

 

Soft seat cushions met tense muscles and hastily swapped fatigues. The sound of Garrus tearing into his dextro meat dish cast fears of lingering sweat aside. Fangs gnashing and loud swallowing provoked some primal prey instinct in the woman, but she didn’t hold it against the cheek-less turian. Instead, her attention quickly shifted to her right. With polite slurps of her nutrient paste, Tali’s dining was subtle by comparison. But she’d made her presence known. Shepard flinched slightly, feeling Tali’s foot playfully tap Shepard’s calf. She shot her a surprised look, just in time to get a wink in return. Miranda and Samara joined at the left side of the table, while Jack made a point of sitting with Zaaed to the far right. Free of her apron, the convict was the last member of the dinner party. Despite her recent foray into cooking, the stew was actually quite nice. The meat was soft and spicy, with the vegetables still holding a crisp crunch to them. Even with climate controlled temperatures, it still felt good to eat a hot meal. Enough that Shepard couldn’t resist opening her mouth.

 

“I gotta say Jack, this stew isn’t bad at all.” Her compliment got a cocked eyebrow from the convict, but she’d kicked things off now.

 

“Agreed. Excellent example of human cuisine. Multiple food-groups, high water-content of broth. Cultural demonstration as well as culinary. Can taste the resilience, primitive simplicity of it. Very tasty!” Mordin’s appraisal was enough to wipe the glower right off Jack’s face.

 

“Girly’s got a future over the pot.” Zaeed nodded. “Reminds me of a bad combat drop I had over this one frozen shithole: Nothing but a dead krogan to last me the week. Had redundant livers, hearts and balls for my three squares. Fucking horrible stuff.” Jack looked at him, bewildered and a little offended. “This is much better than that, by the way.” He added matter-of-factly.

 

“Are you gonna eat that?” Grunt boomed; pointing down to the small collection of meat Kasumi had plucked from her bowl.

 

“They’re all yours, big guy.” She answered brightly. “I’m a vegetarian.”

 

“I’m a krogan.” He said simply before grabbing the large handful and stuffing them into his maw.

 

“Is the meat Earth stock?” Samara asked across the table before eating another spoonful.

 

“Uh… s’what it said on the packet.” Jack shrugged, her demeanour thoroughly innocent.

 

“The texture is most intriguing. Heartier than Thessia’s wildlife, a welcome challenge for the palette.” The justicar gave a warm smile.

 

“Okay, if my cooking is so damn good, then why aren’t you two having any?” Jack pointed her stew-slick spoon at Garrus and Tali.

 

“Much as your, uh… food bath looks appetising.” Garrus looked into Shepard’s bowl, mandibles clenching. “I’d prefer my dinner to stay inside my stomach for the evening.” The commander shared a quick smirk with the turian.

 

“Picky asshole…” Jack muttered. “What about you, Dog legs?”

 

“Don’t take this the wrong way, but I’ll die if I have any.” Tali said dryly, ignoring the nickname.

 

“Couldn’t agree more.” Miranda interjected, dropping her spoon into the bowl with a disgusted sneer. Shepard’s expression tightened in exasperation, as Jack snapped her head to her XO.

 

“Aw, really?” She bit back. “After all the trouble I went to for the extra flavour.” She punctuated the insult by loudly hocking up phlegm in her throat.

 

“Charming. It’s a shame you can’t bring up your biotics like that.” Miranda’s retort slipped through a grimace at the younger woman’s behaviour.

 

“Maybe if you weren’t such a fucki-” Jack’s insult died in the air when Shepard stood up. There was no shouting, but everyone fell silent for a moment. She gave Jack warning glare, locking her blue eyes with hers. Jack sunk back into her chair. Before Miranda could gloat Shepard’s gaze was on her, eliminating any childish response.

 

“Play nice at the table.” She kept her tone light, but everyone felt the ice thinning beneath their feet. Before long the tension eased again, and conversation resumed. Taking a break between mouthfuls, Shepard caught her chief engineer staring at her. Tali’s shining eyes fluttered away, but not before a little smile found Shepard. “How’d the installation go?” Shepard asked, leaning in a little.

 

“No problems.” Tali answered professionally. “All primary and secondary emitters are operating normally, oscillation reactivity is good.”

 

“Any reason you wanted us to hold orbit for another day?”

 

“The shields need calibrating. I’ve got them running simulations for the night, syncing up with our sensor grid. It should maximise efficiency of power draw, so we don’t lose them too fast.” Her explanation, technical as always, was more than enough for Shepard.

 

“You diversifying your targets?” Garrus asked over his shoulder. “Large impacts, missile barrages, glancing shots…?”

 

“Of course I am!” She narrowed her shining eyes. “Keelah, it’s not my first time, Garrus.”

 

“Never hurts to double-check, especially with calibrations.”

 

Shepard shelved her next question for a bit, enjoying her old friends nipping at each other. Reverberating sub-vocals and vocaliser distortion filled her ears. Finishing off a glass of water, she noticed Thane sitting at the other table. The man was completely alone, stealing glances at the team while huddled over his bowl. He looked tense, maybe even nervous. It’d been like this ever since he’d come aboard. They’d chatted a couple of times, and the master assassin enjoyed his time in the gym. Seeing him practicing his takedowns and biotics on the new sparring dummies had given Shepard an idea. Maybe getting Thane more involved with the team was the first step? With a quick pat of her friends’ backs, she headed over to the other table. Dark drell eyes were already on her, watching carefully as she approached.

 

“Shepard, do you need something?” Thane’s growling voice was tinged with anticipation.

 

“No, just… looking a little lonely over here, that’s all.” She gave him a smile. “Why not pull a chair over and bull with the rest of us?” The suggestion seemed to rouse Thane somewhat.

 

“I, um…” Momentary surprise gave way to cool confidence. “Yes, of course. Forgive me, it wasn’t my intention to be rude.”

 

You’re gonna have to be if you want a word in. Especially with those two.” She pointed a thumb to Garrus and Tali. “Come on.”

 

As the commander sat back down to her food, she waved to the spot across from her. Jacob and Zaeed made some room either side, allowing Thane to slot in between them. Despite the striking colouration on his skin, the master assassin did his best to be inconspicuous. Before long, everyone else had settled back down to eating, but not before Shepard noticed something. Jacob had glanced over at Thane, just for a second. The discomfort on his face was obvious. For now it was nothing more than a momentary look, so Shepard left it at that. Getting down to the last bits of broth left, that one particular question began to float around her head again. Tali had finished her nutrient paste, absentmindedly playing with the tube. But as Shepard leaned in to ask it, Garrus piped up.

 

“So, Thane…” His rumbling address got the table’s attention. “Where’d you learn to shoot like that? Suns, Eclipse? I’ve heard they’ve got some ex Special Forces guys in their outfits.”

 

“I doubt you’ve seen anyone with my proficiency wearing their painted armour.” Thane answered calmly. “Or your own, for that matter.” The turian pressed him with a look, prompting Shepard to intervene. But before she could, Thane continued. “My skills were honed under the Hanar Illuminated Primacy. The training began when I was six years old.”

 

“That’s… young.” Tali uttered, her voice tinged with concern.

 

“Perhaps I’ve given you the wrong idea. It hasn’t been a lifetime of brutality. I was valued, taken care of. In exchange I fulfilled a role the hanar lack the ability to.”

 

“Really?” Jacob’s interjection caught Shepard’s attention. “Cause last I heard, you were killing for a pay-check.” She felt a reprimand readying itself, watching Thane’s response.

 

“Does my work offend you?” Those black eyes were on Jacob. His features hardened at the accusation.

 

“I don’t like mercenaries.” Jacob answered bitterly. “Only a few credits away from a knife in the back.”

 

“That’s enough.” Shepard warned, cutting the two men apart with a glare. An awkward silence hung over the table. Jacob’s brown eyes were down at the empty bowl in front of him. Tension moved under his dark skin, his jaw clenching as he forced it down. Finally he stood up.

 

“Sorry, Commander.” He gave a nod, first to Shepard and then Thane. Without another word he trudged over to the dishwasher before heading to the elevator. With little more than conversation keeping everyone at the table, Shepard’s thoughts stayed with the argument. She recalled some tension between Jacob and Thane when the assassin first came aboard. No words had been spoken, but that same look was there. She didn’t really hold it against the man; similar thoughts plagued her own mind. Zaeed, Kasumi, and now Thane. They were professionals, and the first two were here for the credits first and foremost. Despite Thane’s refusal of payment, the possibility for betrayal was always there.

 

But this seemed different. Jacob’s attitude had always been composed, but more laid-back than Miranda. Like most of the crew, he didn’t fit the Cerberus mould. With everything that had happened over the last month, he’d been one of the few people Shepard hadn’t had to worry about. That complacency, it seemed, had finally bore fruit. She excused herself from the table, setting off to find out what was wrong. But before she’d gotten to the elevator, her Omni-tool pinged. That damn quarian could read her mind.

 

[T.Z.-Got any plans for tonight?]

 

[C.S.-Was planning to meet a girl later. You?]

 

[T.Z.-Some bosh’tet needs her armour looked at. Again.]

 

[C.S.-No “upgrades” without asking first, okay? Remember the C-Sec Checkpoint?]

 

She snorted at the flood on tiny angry faces that blinked into her inbox. Tali kept her fire, even over messages. The whole thing had become sort of a second language for them. With so many eyes and ears on board, it wasn’t easy to find time for personal talk. Her visits up to the cabin were a wonderful reprieve from Shepard’s hours on the clock. But the last couple days had dragged on for the poor woman. Even with Ken and Gabby’s help, installing the new shield emitters had been a long process. Without a suitable encrypted channel for audio yet, there’d been no way to chat while she was on EVA. That was until Shepard received a message. Audio channels were one thing, but text: Child’s play for the engineer. It wasn’t the same as hearing her voice, but it was enough to get Shepard grinning whenever a new message came through.

 

Rounding the corner of the CIC, Shepard entered the Armoury. The layout was a mirror image of Mordin’s Tech Lab, a long, rectangular room with a window looking onto the drive core. The smell of oil lingered, with that metallic taste underneath. The tables and shelves that adorned the small space had guns of every kind. Most were in states of disassembly, with mechanical and electrical parts stripped or lubricated. For Jacob Taylor, this room was where most of his day took place, up-keeping the steadily growing arsenal Shepard’s ground missions recovered. Garrus had been working here too, assisting in a project the commander had running. Despite the modicum of usefulness they provided, Horzion had soured Shepard’s view on thermal clips. As of now, every weapon they had was being refitted for long-term heat sinks, they couldn’t risk running dry if the Collectors attacked again. By now most of the conversions were complete, ready for the next mission. Sure enough, Jacob was already working on a pistol, slotting in a heat sink they’d purchased on Omega for it. There was weariness in his eyes when he spotted Shepard, laying the weapon down.

 

“Got a little tense back there, Taylor.” Shepard spoke first. “There a problem between you and Thane?”

 

“No ma’am.” Jacob brought up the Alliance front. “Momentary slip-up, it won’t happen again.” Shepard nodded, closing the distance between them. She looked over the half-assembled pistol, taking her time.

 

“Don’t come up here as often as I should.” Shepard said, more to herself than Jacob. “You’ve been a good member of this crew. No bullshit, no need to double-check your work. You said you were Alliance? I can see it.”

 

“I uh… appreciate it, Commander.” Jacob shifted a little, his brow furrowing. “Suppose I’m lucky in a way, compared to some of the crew.”

 

“Lucky?”

 

“After Horizon. Seeing people crying in the med-bay, hearing them recording goodbyes. I think it finally hit home, for all of us. What we’re doing… what we’re up against.” Jacob leaned against the table, a breath escaping his nose. “Lotta baggage being carried around. Not the kind of shit you want on your mind, especially with this mission.”

 

“What about you?” Shepard asked. “Got any baggage like that?”

 

Jacob shook his head. “Only child, mom died a few years back.” He ran a hand across his chin, brow heavy. “Got close with a couple people over the years. But… well, this line of work it didn’t seem fair on them, y’know?”

 

“Yeah.” Shepard nodded in agreement. “Smart choice, given the risks… probably the right one too.”

 

For a while Jacob didn’t say anything. That tension was in his face again, fingers pressing down onto the table. Shepard wasn’t sure if it was worth pulling on the thread, but she wasn’t going to let the man just stew in it.

 

“Something happen?” The question got a mirthless chuckle from the Cerberus agent.

 

Jacob looked her in the eye. He was searching for something, an accusatory glint behind his stare. When the man relented, his shoulders dropped. “I got a distress call forwarded to my personal messages. An SOS signal from the Hugo Gernsback… the ship my father served on.”

 

“You didn’t mention he was missing.” Shepard noted, shocked.

 

“That’s because the ship’s been gone for ten years.” Jacob explained. “I had no illusions about dad’s work. Private sector, flag-planting ops on uncharted planets.” He sighed. “Mom and I knew it could happen, spend enough time in deep space and… eventually you don’t come home.”

 

“You think he might still be alive?”

 

“No.” Jacob’s answer was sharp. But then his features softened, worry scrawled on his face. “…I don’t know.” He finally admitted. “The beacon’s broadcast date was about a week ago. And the message was hand-typed; none of the typical automated shit in it. I mean… maybe it’s a glitch… or interference from the location? I just…” He trailed off.

 

The easy veneer that Jacob so often carried was completely gone. It was in the way he carried himself, that invisible weight that kinked his back and threw off his stance. Loose movement became rigid and practiced, self awareness evident in every step. The bitter comments, the fidgeting, the avoidance, Shepard had seen it all before. Those first few months after Mindoir were shrouded in a fog of emotions. Up until that awful day, her life had been heading in a nice, simple direction. The pieces had fallen into place long ago, just waiting to play out as the years went by. Sure there were dreams of becoming a soldier, fighting bad guys amongst the stars. But that’s all they’d been. A life like that didn’t happen to normal people. Instead a younger Jane had been a farm girl, sweet on a local girl and pretty damn comfortable where she was.

 

By the time the nightmare was over, months had gone by. Left all alone, there had been no choice but to move forward. She could never thank Anderson enough for giving her that chance. But all the time in the world, never quite healed that last wound. The uncertainty. The blackened and twisted bodies of her parents had been gut-wrenching to see, but burying them had felt good. There was closure, knowing they’d been laid to rest. The same couldn’t be said of her friends, or her sister. There were no bodies to bury for them: Just the ticking of the clock, just the years marching forward. Instead of certainty, Shepard only had probability for comfort. The likelihood that those pieces of her old life had survived dropped every day. Until finally she told herself it was zero. There was no chance her sister had survived… that any of them had. But seeing Jacob like this, confronted with the very real possibility that his father was alive? A wave of dread passed over her.

 

“Pass the coordinates to Joker.” Shepard said, Jacob’s attention snapping to her.

 

“What?” His outburst was bitten down immediately. “Sorry ma’am. I appreciate the offer, but if it’s just a goose chase, then that’s time we could’ve been spending-”

 

“Jacob.” Shepard looked him in the eye. “This shit is eating you. It’s not gonna stop, not until you know for sure. If we’re going to have a shot at defeating the Collectors, then I need everyone at their best. Besides, until we have everything we need there is no mission. You’ve got a chance to know for sure, don’t you want to take it?” She held the man’s gaze, watching him slowly nod.

 

“Yeah… I do.” His lips pressed together, closing his eyes for a moment. “Thanks, Shepard.”

 

 

The under-suit was fine. She knew that. The one-piece garment was in proper working order. There were no obvious flaws in the outer layer; the stab-proof mesh didn’t bunch up anywhere. Her helmet scanner peered into the material, data streaming into a screen on her HUD. The gel layer had been roughed up a bit, growing thin in places: The chest, the elbows and the groin. None of which surprised Tali in the least. Jane possessed many qualities, but attentiveness to her hard-suit was not one of them. Guns? Keelah, the woman could strip down and refit a rifle any day of the week. She’d even watched in amazement as Jane tuned her avenger’s targeting computer. But did she give even a modicum of thought to her armour, of course not. The thought got her worked up, letting out a huff into her faceplate.

 

The scans showed no fraying in the suit’s circuitry, and the powered exoskeleton was mostly undamaged. It clung to the fabric, barely more than a series of ridges running along the arms, legs and back. Small, powerful, prone to damage when a certain bosh’tet constantly fell, or rolled, or crashed into things. So far mobility and protection were fine, and nothing in her scans showed any damage to the airtight seals. Taking a gel injector from inside the armour locker, she slowly started filling in the gaps. The ceramic plates and helmet hanging next to her had already been thoroughly checked: A few divots, no damage to the shield emitters or battery. No need to worry. She angled the tool into the next spot, awkwardly stabbing between the suit’s legs. A thought occurred that made her cheeks flush. She didn’t want to over-pack the area. The last thing Jane needed to worry about was… feeling boxed in. One of the many new things the stupid guidebook had her thinking about.

 

Audio sensors detected footsteps outside the cabin door. Their sound profile was instantly recognised, but she hardly needed it to know who it was. With a thought her HUD was cleared of the human courtship book and the scan data. Peeking out from beyond the under-suit’s shoulder, she spied Jane coming in: Tall and strapping in her new shirt and pants. The confusion on Jane’s face was only momentary, before her favourite expression followed.

 

“What’re you doing to the poor thing this time?” Jane smiled, plodding down the tier steps to join her.

 

“I was just-” Her eyes widened as Jane spotted the injector, poking from the suit’s groin. She jerked it free, embarrassed. “Um, your suit’s gel layer needed refilling. Around the…” She cleared her throat. “Anyway, it’s fine now.”

 

“See? Always knew there was something special about you.” Jane put on a little smirk, squatting down to join her. “No one else worries about my… gel layer.”

 

“Well, you should!” She poked the injector against Jane’s nose. “It’s important for shock absorpt-ah!”

 

She felt those strong arms around her waist, hoisting her up. Jane stood tall, leaning back to keep her long legs from reaching the ground. The swift grapple sent her arms waving, her voice a shriek of surprise. The tall human swayed and stumbled around, just beyond her grasp.

 

“Put me down!” She demanded, trying to reach Jane.

 

“Maybe I should just wear you for defence?” Jane teased, resisting her kicking. “Gotta adjust to the weight, but it’s doable.”

 

“The weight!” Tali roared back. “Keelah, when I get down from here-” Her threat evaporated in a grunt as Jane tripped against the bed. The two of them came down in a heap, and soon she’d rolled over to glare down at Jane.

 

“Do your worst.” Jane said weakly. “Just promise, no gel injectors.” Tali’s eyes narrowed, adjusting her wide hips so she straddled Jane’s midsection. Leaning back she made a show of crossing her arms.

 

“Take back what you said.” She huffed.

 

“You mean about how heavy you are?” Jane grinned, before getting a slap on the chest.

 

“I am not heavy!” Her protests got a giggle out of Jane.

 

“Okay, okay… you’re not that heavy.” Jane finally relented, covering her face as another slap came down.

 

“You are the biggest bosh’tet I have ever met!” She scowled down at Jane. Those thick human arms retreated, revealing that nasty grin again.

 

“I don’t know about the biggest…?” Jane teased, setting Tali’s eyes ablaze.

 

“That’s it!” Tali’s fists came down like meteors. What she had failed to account for however, were the five-fingered hands on her waist. She felt Jane’s abdomen crunch beneath her, powerful muscles sending her up and over the commander. The cabin flipped upside down when she landed on the matrass. Before she’d realised what happened, Jane’s face hovered over her.

 

“Nothing broken?” Jane asked gently, getting another show of crossed arms.

 

“You’re not supposed to comment on my weight, Jane.” She chided the woman. “It’s very rude in human cultures.”

 

“Maybe I like your-” Jane’s smirking reply stopped abruptly. “Wait, what do you mean in human cultures?” Indignation vanished as Tali’s eyes widened in realisation. She hadn’t meant to let it slip.

 

“Uh…”Already the look on Jane’s face was changing. The damn woman already knew.

 

“What have you been reading, Tali’Zorah?”

 

With a defeated sigh, she stared up at the ceiling. One of the guidebook’s first rules had been about honesty with your partner. Human relationships required affirmations of honesty often, to prevent suspicion. They’d already shared some important things; this didn’t seem so big in comparison. The matrass shifted beside her. She turned her head to find Jane’s there, upside down and looking at her.

 

“It’s just a stupid guidebook.” She admitted, bringing up the cover on her Omni-tool. “Crossing the Chirality Bridge: A hands-on guide for new beginnings.” Her recitation got a snort from the woman.

 

“Tali, that’s a guidebook for turians.”

 

“I know that!” She snapped, anger and humiliation rising up in her. Jane fell silent as a slow breath escaped her nose. She hadn’t meant to yell. “It’s… the asari books don’t have anything about chirality differences, and this book came recommended.” Her voice lowered. “There isn’t much out there for… you know.”

 

Of course there wasn’t, why would there be?

 

“Hey.” She felt Jane’s soft tug at her chin, bringing her eyes to the commander. “I’m sorry.” Jane sat up, offering her a hand. Soon the two of them were upright on the messy quilt. “I didn’t know you were worried about this.”

 

“I-I’m not! I mean I am, but not like…” She huffed in frustration, palming her hand against her mask. “It’s just, this is all kind of new to me.” It sounded even more pathetic out loud. “Back on the Fleet, there are steps we follow. It’s all very traditional, and everyone sort of… knows what’s happening.”

 

“Would you… like us to try that?” Jane looked uncertain, but her smile shone through. “I know I’m not quarian, but if you wanted I could-”

 

“No!” Tali interrupted, holding up her hands. “Keelah, Jane. I would never expect you to do anything like that.” She scooted closer, touching Jane’s arm. “I care about you, and I want you to feel comfortable.”

 

“That’s why you’re reading it…” Jane said softly. Tali nodded, her eyes on the quilt.

 

“I just don’t want to mess this up.” She said shyly. Jane leaned against the headboard, offering her arm. Tali cuddled up beside her, looking over at the fish tank. The view only got better when Jane pulled her in closer.

 

“I can promise you’re not gonna mess this up.” Jane’s voice came down from above, and she felt Jane’s head resting against her helmet. “If something happens, we can always talk about it, right?” Jane gave Tali’s arm an affectionate squeeze, and she nodded against Jane’s cheek. “Otherwise, I think we can put down the guidebooks. I’m happy to wing this a little, if you are?”

 

She remembered the term; Jane’d explained it to her on the old Normandy. They’d been trying to rescue a hostage from biotic terrorists. A gun battle had turned into a standoff, and at the last minute Jane had opted for peace. Watching her talk to those people, empathise with them. There’d been no plan for it, but Jane managed it anyway. If that’s what “winging” things meant with her, then she trusted it.

 

“Okay.” She let her worry subside, looking up at Jane. “But no more comments about my weight! Which is all muscle, by the way!” Her finger poked Jane’s chest, eyes sharp as daggers. She recoiled a little, laughing.

 

“You interrupted me earlier!” She had a look of pained offence, before her façade cracked into a smirk. “I was going to say…”

 

Jane leaned in closer, her hand trailing down Tali’s arm. It slipped from her elbow, following the curve of her waist. Tali felt lightning in its wake, arcing across her skin.

 

“…How much it flatters you.” She felt a firm squeeze on her hip, those human fingers sinking into her suit. She stifled a yelp of surprise, neurons blazing with delight.

 

“…Oh.” The word was breathed out, for lack of an intelligible response. Her body ached when Jane softened her grip.

 

“How’ve you been feeling?” Jane asked, keeping close to her. She so easily slipped into that lovely, earnest care. “Karin said you might be experiencing some symptoms?” Tali’s spike of arousal levelled off into a comfortable warmth.

 

“I’m doing okay.” She put her hand on Jane’s chest, returning her affections. “Some sniffling, a small fever. I barely even notice that stuff anymore.” Jane tensed beneath her glove, bringing a flattered smile to Tali’s face.

 

“If it gets any worse, let me know?” Jane sunk down onto the bed, looking up at her with beckoning eyes.

 

“I promise.” She crawled on top of Jane, laying her head on her chest. Soon Jane’s arm was stroking her back, lulling the young woman into a pleasant drowsiness. It had become a lovely new mainstay of their relationship, just lying together. For a human, she certainly knew how to make a quarian feel at home.

 

A primal part of Tali lingered on that bold show of desire, even in the gentle bliss of their embrace. Without her nerve stimulator, it had been little more than pressure through the fabric. Without texture or even heat, her skin had only the shape of Jane’s hand to react to. But where the exquisite bouquet of sensations was dampened, she had known it in every other way. She had been there beside her, joking and flirting. She heard the tone of Jane’s voice, felt the weight of her presence. Seen the passion in her eyes when that dull change in pressure came. Jane’d touched her, wanting her to feel it.

 

One of the things she’d become acutely aware of in her life; was the other side of nerve stimulation. The side her friends and colleagues didn’t talk about. Perhaps there’d been no need for them, comfortable as they were in the Fleet. Instead she’d learned it alone, during those long months after that nightmare. The nerve stimulator could conjure up hands running across her skin. It could trick her brain into the feeling of lips pressed against hers, or bring her to physical ecstasy: An orgasm button, for lack of a better word. Designed to sate her every desire.

 

But it wasn’t real, and that truth poured in like water from all around her. She drowned in it, the emptiness that came afterward. Years had gone by like that, before the impossible had happened. Now, as she lay there with Jane, the true scale of contrast hit her. It burned inside her, roared and blazed like a fusion torch. Perhaps it was something as simple as pent-up frustration: A fact of life that had only become humiliating during her Pilgrimage. Virginity was normal for quarians, but seeing how free others could be with their love. Its teeth had sunk into her, and that scar never faded. Was it that absurd, to want to get laid? In the face of the risks, any rational person would say yes. But Tali’Zorah clung to those new side effects. She relished in the sniffles and the fever. If Mordin’s treatment made her walk suit-less through a sandstorm, she would do it gladly.

 

Because this feeling, the one that consumed her in Jane’s embrace? It was more real than anything she’d ever felt.
