Chapter 36: Rising Above

The cabin shook as they trundled beneath the rust coloured clouds. Every meter was a fight over the rough terrain; even the tomkah struggled in it. Mammoth axels compensated for the rocking, gale-force winds buffeting the oversized tank. Everything was dead. Filtered sunlight illuminated the blood-red sky. Overhead the dust clouds roiled, and outside laid the remains of a vast krogan city. It stretched on for miles, skeletonised towers and rotten overpasses visible all the way into the gloom. Shepard took in the depressing vista, the hair on her neck standing up. Until her sixteenth birthday, Mindoir had never known war. But Earth had been on the precipice of destruction for nearly two centuries. Political tensions, radical beliefs, blindness… arrogance. The brink had been so close, more times than people wanted to believe anymore. If not for the Mars archives, her species may well have shared the krogan’s fate.

 

It made her fists clench. She tore her gaze away long enough to find Mordin in the dimly lit cabin. His orange skin clashed with Samara’s blue. The bastard was quiet now. On the shuttle ride, he’d rattled off the destruction and torment of the krogan like it was a fucking book report. He’d used those same inflections yesterday, when revealing just how important his old university studies had been to the STG. Listening to the cold-blooded doctor rationalise and detail his actions in modifying the genophage. It had brought Shepard closer to violence than she cared to admit. She hadn’t felt such rage since Horizon.

 

This educated man… this doctor, had secretly re-infected an entire people with the worst blight of their existence, because they were finally beginning to evolve past it. Two millennia of punishment hadn’t been enough for him. Oh he’d had answers, a moral hand-wave for every question, in that condescending tone of his. And if all that hadn’t been enough, this monster had the audacity to ask a favour: To save a co-conspirator, another hand in this atrocity. The only thing that had stayed Shepard’s wrath was Tali’s treatment. Despite Shepard’s feelings, Tali deserved what Mordin promised her. So Shepard had accepted. But after that, the two would never speak again.

 

By now the Clan Weyrloc bunker was behind them. The whole ordeal had taken over two hours, carefully navigating the labyrinthine depths of an old krogan hospital. Garrus had joined Samara as the professor’s escort. The squad of four had kept things as tight and fast as they could. But like any bunker, it was highly defensible. Traps, blind corners, kill zones and darkness. Once again the justicar had excelled in close combat, slicing through vorcha with her biotic sword. Both their powers combined had been enough to keep the enemy on the defensive. Garrus’ familiarity with the Blood Pack had been invaluable, helping him anticipate most of the dangers. Though Shepard had loathed his presence, Mordin’s skills with a gun and Omni-tool had shone. He was deadly to krogan, with more than just a needle. His technical know-how was excellent, though not a patch on her favourite quarian.

 

Tali’s absence had eaten at her the whole time. She’d stayed behind at the Urdnot Camp, per Wrex’s request. Shepard hadn’t been able to refuse the old lizard, not after the warm welcome she’d gotten. Well, as warm as could be expected on Tuchanka. Apparently Tali’s magic touch had been needed for a laundry list of problems. She hoped her old friend wasn’t milking the quarian’s good nature, but truthfully she was glad. What they’d seen in that bunker… it reminded her of the slave pens on Torfan: The smell of disinfectants. Stains of blood on dirty surgery tables. She knew medical experiments when she saw them. A particularly vile pastime of the Hegemony’s frontier colonies, and one she’d punished without mercy. Seeing that again, it made her sick. Mordin had kept his nerve, even as he hovered over the dissected corpse of a krogan woman. Something about that calm he had, the words left Shepard’s mouth without a moment’s thought. She’d yelled and ranted, blaming the professor for all of it. Why couldn’t he see the connection? Kidnapping a salarian scientist, resulting to torture and executions to cure the genophage. Whatever problems the krogan had, taking away their future had only made things worse.

 

Garrus didn’t agree. The turian didn’t say a word the whole mission, but Shepard was already aware of his opinion. It was something they’d argued before, to multiple standstills. Normally it wouldn’t have bothered her. But there had been a moment, where Mordin’s stone façade had faltered. The professor admitted to the pain it caused him, the sleepless nights where guilt poured in. His convictions bent a little, allowing true vulnerability to peek through. And she’d rubbed the salarian’s nose in it. Held up the butchered body of a woman she’d never met, and put her blood on his hands.

 

Something had shifted behind Mordin’s face; the spark of defiance was extinguished. His whole demeanour changed, the normally bright man’s steps were heavier now. And right after the deed was done, she saw those cool blue eyes watching her. Garrus didn’t let a single tell slip through. No judgement, no blame, nothing. Both he and Samara were back to it with a single order. But Shepard felt the twisting in her gut afterward. She’d allowed righteousness to become cruelty, taken joy in it. Ashamed, she was doubly thankful for Wrex’s insistence. She couldn’t bear the thought of Tali seeing her like that. Not again.

 

The look in Mordin’s eyes when the doors to the main lab opened, it was something Shepard would never forget. It was like the past hours had vanished from his mind, every shot fired and cruel word. Standing before him, nestled between two rows of fresh krogan bodies, was his former student. Maelon. The commander hadn’t known what exactly to expect. From the stories Wrex had told; she knew of the krogan’s brutality. To a Tuchanka warlord, women were property and subordinates were fodder. This hopeless, barren world drew out the very worst of their tendencies. Violence, torture, forced experimentation. None of it was beyond believing. The whole time she’d been preparing for the sorry state Maelon would be in. But instead, he seemed perfectly fine. No track marks from injections, no bruises or branding. Mordin’s audible confusion only made her suspicions worsen, along with the pit in her stomach. Then it came, the truth. The young student had never been captured. Curing the genophage hadn’t been the dream of another krogan madman; it had been his.

 

For once, the professor was completely speechless. He babbled to himself, trying to rationalise the decision. But Shepard saw it clearly, right there in Maelon’s eyes.

 

Guilt.

 

It had driven him to give up every ethical boundary, every taboo. He ranted and moralised, pointing his finger at Mordin. He talked about the blood of millions, how their work had been a second genocide. It was clear in his voice, the poor fool was drowning in it. For a time, teacher and pupil argued. She heard both sides, equal in conviction. Without her own anger in the middle, the remorse in Mordin’s tone came through. It tore him apart, reconciling what he’d done. But in Maelon, it was completely gone. Replaced by righteousness, by certainty. In the end, those feelings led to violence. The student drew his gun, trembling hands levelling it at his old mentor. Mordin didn’t even flinch. He disarmed the boy, before readying his own weapon. The hate in his voice…

 

The cabin rocked again, drawing Shepard’s attention to movement nearby. Garrus stumbled over, grabbing the rail. The tomkah crew shot him dirty looks; several pairs of krogan eyes barely contained their disgust. They spaced themselves out, just enough to keep tabs on both the turian and salarian. Samara barely even registered to them. The stalwart woman had kept close to Mordin, ready at a moment’s notice to defend him. Shepard had ordered it, just to be safe. Finally the seat beside her filled with vigilante backside. For a moment Garrus was content to get adjusted, letting the oddly tense air between them settle a bit. The two still hadn’t spoken, even as the squad exfilled to the vehicle. After what had transpired, it wasn’t surprising. She watched those mandibles press flush to her friend’s face, before fluttering again. It was a tell Garrus didn’t know he had.

 

“Y’know, I was just wondering…” The turian’s tone was light as always. “You think Guld had a price on his head?”

 

“Forgot to ask him.” Shepard shrugged. “Why, planning on fleecing Wrex for a reward?”

 

“A little compensation never hurt anyone. Maybe a friends and family bonus?”

 

“Should’ve got that in writing, Vakarian. Otherwise it’s just doing a public service.”

 

Garrus shot her a flare of his mandibles, before sighing. “You’re probably right.” He flicked through his Omni-tool for a few seconds, not seeming to do much of anything. “You heard from Tali while we were out?”

 

“Why would I have heard from her?” Shepard’s question got an all-too-knowing look.

 

“You really wanna play that game?”

 

“Fine, fine.” She couldn’t help but chuckle at the turian’s ability to read her these days. “She sent a couple updates, things she fixed back at camp. Looks like Wrex put her to work.”

 

“Hmm, lazy old bastard.” Garrus snorted.

 

Shepard nodded in agreement; keeping tight-lipped about everything else Tali had sent her. Her encrypted messages had gone beyond a simple update. All of it was one way, owing to message silence while on mission. There was an “I miss you” thrown in, along with some observations about Wrex. She worried about him, like she did everyone. There were some more… personal things. A diagnostic update from the decontamination unit she’d installed in the elevator partition. HVAC progress. Shepard’s cabin was cleaner now then it ever had been, literally. The last message however, had been something different. It had stuck with her the whole mission.

 

“Got a little… tense, with the professor back there.” Garrus mused, dimming the smile on Shepard’s face.

 

“You mean with Maelon?” Her question gave the turian pause. They both knew what he meant.

 

“Yeah, with Maelon.” Garrus clarified, shifting in his seat. “Thought… maybe for a second there…”

 

“Could’ve gone either way. It’s not so easy, when it’s people we know.” Just the thought made her feel heavy in her seat. Sometimes she wondered if Wrex still thought about what happened on Virmire.

 

“…Why’d you stop him?” Garrus finally asked the question. It was enough to make her wince. A silent moment ticked by while she thought about it.

 

“He didn’t wanna do it.”

 

“That’s not what it looked like to me.” Garrus noted, glancing over to the professor. “His friend betrays him, commits horrible crimes in an attempt to undo all his work. Far as these situations go, he had the bastard dead to rights.” Those cool blue eyes were on the commander again. “He would’ve killed him, Shepard.”

 

“In that moment… yeah, he would’ve.” Shepard nodded, her hands together. “But tomorrow, a few months from now?”

 

“Time doesn’t erase what he did. Maelon would’ve had it coming for the rest of his life.” Snarling sub-harmonics accompanied Garrus’ words. He stared at the far window, fixated on that tiny picture of desolate horizon.

 

“True.” Shepard sighed. “But when you’re the one pulling the trigger, it’s not about them. It’s about you.”

 

She felt Garrus slump beside her, keeping his gaze fixed on the window. The anger practically radiated off him. But it wasn’t like it used to be. Two years ago, that was the steam from a hot headed cop, hell bent on meting out his ideals. Railing against rules and regulations was easy to reign in, a basic trick Shepard had learned during officer’s training. Back then she could keep an eye on Garrus; stop him from straying too far to the edge. He never appreciated the “advice” Shepard gave, at least not at the time. But eventually, the turian levelled out into a good man. Eventually, there wasn’t any need to be worried. Then a lifetime had gone by. Two years she wasn’t there to help him, to protect him. Now advice felt like token gestures. What right did she have to steer the man’s life?

 

“You don’t think… Mordin could handle it?” Garrus asked. “Killing a friend?”

 

“I don’t know.” Shepard admitted, sensing something beneath the turian’s words. “But there’s no going back.”

 

Their eyes met, two shades of blue. In that wordless look, her best friend asked the unuttered question. One he wouldn’t have dared to speak. Despite the gripes and grievances the two had, the respect was always there. They could discuss things; even argue for hours on end. Every topic of conversation had come up over the time they’d spent working together. But in the field, when it came to the commander’s decisions, Garrus never questioned her. Perhaps out of some obligation when they first met, but soon it was out of pure trust. It was a quality all her friends had shared, the willingness to follow her into uncertainty. But now, things were different. That loyalty felt different. Sometimes Shepard dreaded that it was merely pity, or that his loyalty was to the name and face. They’d both changed, in no small part for the worse. After Horizon, what happened on Aeia had shown that.

 

“Why did you let Jacob kill his father?”

 

What answer could she give? Garrus had been right there with her, for both of these missions. He’d watched his commander stand by and let Jacob take out his rage on Ronald, murdering the man. It felt good, seeing that monster’s body slump over dead. But after nearly a month, the effects were becoming readily apparent. Jacob had withdrawn, his outward demeanour little more than a half-hearted front. Any attempts to get through were impossible. She didn’t really know the man. So in the end, there was nothing she could do. The whole thing was enough to dredge up that awful thought that always lingered beneath her skin.

 

The old Shepard wouldn’t have let it happen.

 

Was that what she would tell her friend? That deciding a person’s fate… was really about her?

 

 

After nearly another hour of driving, the tomkah finally rolled into the Urdnot camp’s main airlock. The slowly reddening haze outside was replaced by darkness. The vehicle lurched as it came to a stop. Shepard jolted up, righting herself again. Garrus was relieved to have his shoulder back, but the woman had been pushing hard the last week. If anyone deserved a nap, it was Shepard. After a few minutes of decontamination, the grinding of heavy doors rumbled against the rover’s hull. Soon they were back in the main hangar, readying to depart. Garrus let the others go first, it was a long-time habit by this point. Always better to have everyone in his sights. There was still a tense pause between Mordin and the commander as they exited, though the searing anger was seemingly gone. Samara glanced over at him, sharing a knowing look. In truth, Garrus could only guess at her meaning. The justicar was probably wiser than all of them put together.

 

Unsurprisingly, two familiar faces were waiting for them. They must’ve gotten the call beforehand. As usual, Tali was on her tip-toes to see Shepard again. There was some hesitation this time though. Mordin and the commander spoke for a moment, quietly. Eventually she simply gave the salarian a nod, her jaw clenched. Without another word, Mordin headed for the shuttle bay. Garrus could hardly blame him. Tuchanka was only just bearable on its best days, but with everything he’d seen today? Anyone would want to leave. There wasn’t time to linger on it; Tali had already closed the distance. Out came the usual barrage of “are you okay’s?” and Omni-tool scans. Spirits, it could be a little much. But Shepard always relaxed when Tali fussed over her, something the turian was thankful for. He looked beyond them to Wrex. The old bastard was eyeing them, an odd smile on his face. Not that it was ever easy to tell with krogan.

 

Supposedly it was already sundown outside. Grunt’s “Rite of Passage” was slated for tomorrow morning. There hadn’t been time to hear the details before, but Garrus assumed it would be violent, like everything to do with krogan. Then Wrex made the offer. The ground team who would be taking part could bunk in his camp for the night. Much to the turian’s dismay, Shepard agreed. With the exception of Mordin and Kasumi, that basically meant everyone would be staying. None bar Miranda expressed any upset. Though annoyed was a typical state for the Cerberus woman. The great clan chief offered his own “luxurious” quarters for old friends. But there was a detour to make first. Garrus headed back to the shuttle, just in time to catch it before Mordin departed. Grabbing a case from under one of the seats, he tried to ignore the dimness in the salarian’s gaze.

 

After enjoying yet another round of distrust in beady krogan eyes, Garrus had made it back to the area they were staying. The bunker’s layout was straightforward at least. He passed by the guest quarters, a bunch of cots already occupied by his squad mates. Jacob was near the back, huddled up alone like usual. He didn’t typically care for the two Cerberus watchdogs that accompanied Shepard on this mission, but seeing it bothered Garrus. Perhaps it was just a human thing? They weren’t cut out for trigger pulling, at least in some circumstances. He didn’t want to dwell on it. The bulky guards outside the chief’s door grumbled as they let him past. He knew better than to joke with them. Soon the turian emerged into the mid-sized room, taking in the reasonably nice furnishings. The giant, sloping bed must’ve been Wrex’s. Three more cots had been set up, on the far end. Everyone had brought their helmets, smartly. The red-splashed lizard could shake walls with his snoring. Finally his eyes settled on the old trio. Seated around a fire pit under an extraction fan, already the air was full of talking.

 

“C’mon Shepard, just try it!” Wrex shook his meat skewer in front of the woman, before biting off a couple pieces.

 

“What is it, again?” Shepard asked, eyeing her own skewer.

 

“It’s just varren, it’s not gonna kill ya.” The old krogan’s assurance did little to convince her.

 

“What do you think?” Shepard turned to the quarian sitting beside her.

 

“It… looks fresh.” She tilted her helmet. “I think.”

 

“Ah, the hell with it.” Human teeth bit down on the overcooked varren flesh. Shepard scarfed down the first bit, chewing hard. Garrus stayed in the doorway, just out of notice. His mandibles unconsciously splayed when the truth found it’s way to Shepard’s face. After a valiant swallow, she leaned forward and gagged.

 

“Jesus… that’s horrible!” The hitch in her voice made Garrus lose it. Flanging laughter filled the room as he finally stepped in, laying the supply crate down by his side.

 

“Bah, still got a weak stomach.” Wrex waved a large paw dismissively. “Thought you said they upgraded her?”

 

“I did not use the word, “upgraded.” Tali looked quickly to Shepard, getting a strained grin out of her. “Keelah, I don’t think anything would make that more appetising.”

 

“You trying to kill her, old-timer?” Garrus wrestled his laughing down enough to make the jab.

 

“Trying to fatten her up a little. Still all stringy like before.” The krogan shook his head. “I swear, Shepard. You’re like Wreav back when he was a hatchling. Nothing was ever good enough for him either. Had to use a jaw-spreader to get the idiot to eat.”

 

“What the hell’s a… actually, y’know what, never mind. Here.” The commander handed over her skewer, getting a huff from Wrex before he dug in to it. “Garrus, got any rations in that crate?”

 

“Why’d you think I brought it?” He cracked the lid, tossing over a ready-made stew. First Shepard, then Tali. Drinks were next, just light stuff. The turian dug out some dextro jerky for himself, along with a beer. Wrex was content with his bottle of ryncol.

 

“I take it Tali’s filled you in on what’s been happening?” Shepard’s question came between thankful mouthfuls of human food.

 

“Pretty much. You know quarians, they go on and on.” Wrex’s insult got a muffled, wordless retort from Tali, her mouth full. “So… Collectors this time.”

 

“Yeah, we came face-to-face with them on Horizon. Barely made it out of there.” The commander’s eyes darkened a little.

 

“I only ever encountered them once, a couple centuries back. Prison ship had been hijacked, so the owners contracted me to secure the bridge and pilot the thing to a rendezvous point.” Wrex, unbelievably, shuddered. “Wasn’t expecting to find giant bugs waiting for me. They subdued the prisoners and took em all, payed me twice the agreed amount, then left.”

 

“They were doing the same thing a few months back.” Tali interjected with a nod. “I saw them using batarian pirates to round up humans.” Her shining eyes shifted under a furrowed brow. “We still have no idea why they’re taking entire colonies.”

 

“You don’t think they’re… eating them all, do you?” Garrus’ question was only half-serious. “Personally I’d be a little insulted. I mean, what’s wrong with turian?”

 

“Keelah…” Tali shook her head, but Shepard managed a snort. Wrex grinned, sharing in his morbid humour.

 

“Don’t suppose you’d be up for saving the galaxy again?” Shepard looked over at the krogan.

 

“Wish I could.” Wrex sighed, leaning forward a little. “Unfortunately, my little experiment actually worked. It might not look too pretty, but this place has become the centre of the largest krogan confederation on Tuchanka. Clans from all over the planet have sworn fealty to Urdnot. With my camp serving as a neutral ground, we’ve managed to consolidate enough power to start making changes.”

 

“Changes?” Shepard asked, intrigued. Wrex had a glint in his eye.

 

“For starters, we’re not wasting time killing each other anymore. The clans under my banner stay distinct, and handle their own problems. We’ve started pooling our resources, sharing our females. Anyone can join, provided they send in hostages for collateral. It’s not always easy, and those who’ve defied us were put down. But now it feels like we’re finally building something better. In a few years, Urdnot will be ground zero for a true krogan hub.”

 

It wasn’t often Wrex spoke like this, at least back in the day. Garrus had been fairly slow to trust the old krogan. Their species already had bad blood, and it was never wise to rely on bounty hunters. But with sufficient alcohol, or prodding from Shepard, he’d eventually work himself up into a rant. “Recapturing lost glory”, “returning pride to my people”, and other such carry on. As far as the turian was concerned, it was all crap. He’d come to like Wrex, even sympathise a little with his situation. But the krogan were what they were. A thousand years since the Rebellions, and no one had forgotten. They were barbarians and little else. After being broken by the Council, pettiness had reduced them to infighting and mercenary work. Garrus had seen them perform all manner of atrocities. The Blood Pack was just the latest iteration of the “krogan problem”.

 

But as he sat there, listening to Wrex detail the frustrations and victories of his plan, he had to wonder. Perhaps this oddity among oddities was what the krogan needed to finally turn a corner. Things certainly seemed civilised enough in the camp. The precautions he took were sensible, and his plans weren’t overly utopian. The ancient bastard never had been much of an idealist. Assuming the worst didn’t happen, a united krogan without a warlord at the helm would at least make things easier for everyone else. The Council could stop pouring credits into the CDEM, and maybe something worthwhile could be made out of this windswept world. Garrus looked over at his two friends. Both Tali and Shepard were taking turns with questions. Soft hearted mammals; they were always the hopeful ones. Reality had burned them before. But… the impossible had also happened.

 

“Honestly, I’m amazed you’ve managed all this in just two years.” Shepard said in disbelief.

 

“Wasn’t easy.” Wrex admitted. “But… well I had this nagging do-gooder in my ear, for months on end. Figured if I pulled it off, that’d shut her up.” The krogan winked a red eye.

 

“She tends to have that effect on people.” Tali giggled, rubbing her shoulder against Shepard’s.

 

Seeing them all like that, something cold washed over Garrus. In so many ways, they were the same old friends he’d come to trust with his life. Never had he imagined he’d be so close to either a krogan or quarian. And Shepard? No words would ever be enough, to describe the feeling. But as he sat there, it felt like a wall separated him from the others. Despite his many flaws, Wrex had gone on to make something better for his people. Tali, she’d remained the good woman she always was. Even the monsters on Haestrom had fallen behind her now. Without Shepard, they’d done their damn best to move on: To become more than they were, and really honour their friend’s memory.

 

What had he done?

 

“I’ll uh… I’ll be back in a bit.” Garrus got up, leaving his beer and jerky forgotten. The others looked up.

 

“You alright?” Shepard asked. Those blue human eyes always peered a little deeper than was comfortable.

 

“Yeah, just gotta walk off some stiffness. It’s a turian thing, helps me sleep better.”

 

The bunker’s main area was near-deserted, with only a few guards standing watch. None of them seemed to care as he made his way out to wards the shuttle bay. The Kodiak was gone, returned to the Normandy. A circle of stars broke up the inky blackness above. The winds had abated for the night, and the blast door had been left open. No doubt automatic, it’d close again if need be. In the relative solitude, he took the opportunity for some “fresh” air. Garrus opened his Omni-tool; going over the data he’d pulled from the flight recorder. The previous passenger lists were still stored, with a few possible alias’s selected for the turian he was hunting. Of course Lantar Sidonis had known better than to use his real name.

 

There were a few destinations along the transport’s flight path, most of them smaller stations and colonies. It was hard to rule any of them out completely. But the Citadel still seemed the most likely place he was hiding. There’d been rumblings on the old C-Sec unofficial channels that a new criminal had popped up. Some kind of forgery specialist, going by the moniker “Fade”. Who better to help Sidonis disappear? Of course, it wouldn’t matter soon. Garrus knew every inch of that massive station, and there were still enough old buddies on the force to make things easier. Once he got a hold of this mystery forger, the bastard’s days were numbered. The last hurdle would be convincing Shepard to help.

 

The thought was enough to force the air from his lungs. Garrus swiped away from the files, bringing up his messages instead. He froze up for a moment. There was a new one from Solana. How long had it been since the last round of treatments? Was she contacting him just to say “hi”, or was it another awful update? For a moment his finger hovered over the message, wanting desperately to open it. But in the end, he just couldn’t. He scrolled away from it, desperate to see anything else. Doctor Michel had sent him another message. This time, the choice was easy. He let her words of concern calm him, indulging in the knowledge that she still remembered his rescue so fondly. They’d been chatting off and on for a while now, firstly at Shepard’s behest. But now these conversations made for a rare escape. She was a sweet human.

 

Sweet, thoughtful… how long had it been since he’d known those things? Garrus leaned against the wall, rubbing a hand over his brow-plates. He remembered them in Sol’s eyes, the last time they’d vid-called. Spirits, that was two years ago. After finding out what had happened, he’d wanted to bury that memory: Anything that brought his mind home, back to family. Getting those medical reports, he’d finally discovered an inevitable he didn’t want to fight. Omega had been an escape, from everything. It was easy to get lost there, to let the violence overtake you. It might’ve done just that, if not for the friends he’d made there… if not for Lantar.

 

He’d never imagined things would ever feel normal again…

 

The air whistled through the gaps in his beak. The still air didn’t bother him, but Garrus traced a finger along his mandible. Chipped and scarred, parts of it still ached. His eyes narrowed, looking down into the featureless concrete. His hands balled to fists, trembling as the rage seeped out of him. He could smell it in the air, Copper, iron, and the scent of bile: His friends’ blood, darkening on the floor beneath them. Most of them were dead by the time he’d arrived, but not Weaver. He’d lingered, tears in his eyes as perforated lungs wheezed and gurgled. Those eyes had held Garrus there, transfixed as he cried out for his daughter. Ten of the best people he’d ever known, left to rot in a dingy backroom.

 

He clamped his eyes shut. A wailing keen made it’s way up his throat. Garrus forced it down. The agony, the despair, it would have to wait. He wouldn’t succumb, not while the one responsible still drew breath. The time would come, when all of this was made right.

 

And Shepard. The debt he owed that woman. It was more than he could ever hope to repay. But he would see this mission through. He’d give every last inch to help destroy the Collectors. What happened after that… it wouldn’t really matter, would it?
