Chapter 4: Skin Suit

Tali was alive…

 

Huddled inside the Kodiak, Shepard kept her eyes on the floor. Miranda and Jacob were seated across from her, discussing something. She wasn’t paying attention; her mind was far away. Tali was alive. Seeing Tali again had felt almost surreal. Like their first meeting, but with the roles reversed. Watching her stride through her squad so confidently, commanding that asshole Prazza without an ounce of fear or hesitation. Even though she wasn't really shy, Shepard had never seen anything like that from Tali before. She felt a little tug at the corner of her mouth, no wonder she hadn’t recognised her immediately. Tali certainly wasn’t the girl she rescued two years ago. She had a new position, a new suit and a new aura around her. But those eyes… she’d recognise them anywhere. They glowed, or more accurately shone, with singular warmth.

 

She hadn’t thought to mention it at the time, but Shepard had noticed other changes in her quarian friend. Tali seemed taller, though perhaps Shepard had just never seen her standing proud, without fear. She still only came up to Shepard’s chin, but you couldn’t tell it. She was larger too, fuller figured. Shepard had noticed it immediately. Her arms and legs were thicker; the young technician must’ve taken to gym life at some point. When Tali had helped her up after the Meeko’s airstrike, Shepard had felt the strength in Tali’s grip, how she’d pulled the larger woman up effortlessly. Of course her weight gain had only complimented her figure. She’d kept her impressive waistline, and her belly was just as flat and toned as always. Instead her newfound padding brought back memories of their dance together.

 

Forcing the inner cavewoman back into her cage, Shepard instead focused on the new suit Tali had been wearing. The quarian envirosuits were a generally beautiful item of clothing. Melding the practicality of having to live in them, with the aesthetic charm of a deep, social culture. Her pilgrimage suit had been eye-catching to start with; a dark blue material, with purple garments wrapped around her hips and left arm. They had a silvery-white pattern, like swirling winds. The veil she’d worn over her helmet had draped down behind her shoulders, giving her a smaller, slimmer look.

 

But this new suit had been something more. Far from the ramshackle look of her pilgrimage outfit, Tali’s new suit was grander. The material was a deep black, adorned with purple over-garments again. But the hue of her new fabrics was a deeper, more royal purple, accented with gold. A hood, bunching up a little at her shoulders, had replaced her veil. It was broader, better fitting her maturity. Typical of her quarian origins, the new suit was also fitted with belts fitted around her waist and just below her bust, holding all manner of pouches and pockets. A pair of elbow-length fabric over-gloves added the rich colour to her extremities, with the remainder of the fabric snaking down from her hood around her belly, before being wrapped around her thighs. Like before, Tali wore a pair of two-toed boots that came up her knees, protecting her digitigrade legs from harm while giving them complete freedom of movement. Shepard grinned; she’d spotted Tali’s old dagger, still strapped to her left leg. Overall, her new look perfectly reflected the woman Shepard had always known she’d become, no longer uncertain and struggling to make do, but put-together and confident. She’d even changed the hue of her helmet’s visor, matching her garment’s purple motif. Shepard liked it; she could see her eyes clearer through the new mask.

 

“So, I take it you and that quarian know each other?” Miranda’s voice pulled Shepard back into the shuttle’s cramped cabin. She focused on Miranda’s face, blocking out the nearby window.

 

“She’s an old friend.” Shepard answered curtly. Miranda let out a snigger, but didn’t smile.

 

“She must be some quarian, worth pissing away our best lead for.” She said coldly, making no attempt to hide her contempt. Shepard held her gaze, but didn’t answer. She had no intention of playing this game. Miranda looked down at her hand, flexing her slender fingers before balling them into a fist. “Never pegged you for a xenophile, maybe you’ve just got a thing for bodysuits?”

 

Shepard got up from her seat, teeth bared and crackling with blue energy. Miranda shifted her posture, still seated but ready, daring her to make the first move. Shepard’s body ached from their last fight, but hearing this bitch disrespect her friend wasn’t something she’d tolerate. Her own large hands clenched to fists, her better judgement quickly losing out to the satisfaction of liberating the woman’s teeth from her skull.

 

“That’s enough, Miranda!” Jacob stood up, getting between them. “We’re here to help Shepard, not harass her over her decisions.”

 

“That’s easy for you to say. You don’t report directly to the Illusive Man: You’re not the one who has to tell him we gave up our only lead because Shepard didn’t have the stomach to tell her little friend no.”

 

“That’s not our call to make, Miranda. The Illusive Man says Shepard’s in charge, she’s in charge.” Jacob crossed his arms, looking her in the eye. Her lips pressed together as she glared at him, but she didn’t say anything else. With a slight wince, Jacob sat down again. Shepard followed suit, the built-up biotics crackling off her. Avoiding the cabin window, she put her eyes on her knees again, but not before catching Miranda’s cold stare. She could see it plain as day, Miranda despised her.

 

The remainder of the flight to Minuteman Station was almost silent. The two Cerberus agents said one or two things after the argument, but Shepard didn’t speak again. She was sitting on her anger, digesting it. It was frustrating, she barely knew Miranda at all and yet her insult had crawled right under Shepard’s skin. Her jabs at Shepard’s performance were one thing, but insulting Tali had really touched a nerve. She tried her best to twist the anger into pity. Obviously a xenophobic terrorist would never appreciate the efforts of someone like Tali, just because of her species. It didn’t matter that she’d revealed Saren to be a rouge Spectre, or that her evidence had first alerted everyone to the threat of the Reapers. Hell she’d even been there, right at her side when Shepard took down Sovereign. Whatever the press said, Tali was just as much a hero as she was. Shepard didn’t want to linger on it, she didn’t need to justify why Miranda was wrong. But beyond that, maybe there was something else bothering her. She trusted Tali implicitly, but Tali answered to superiors. What if the quarians didn’t forward Veetor’s data? She’d be stuck again, fumbling in the dark. What if Tali tried to send it anyway? The last thing she wanted was to jeopardise Tali’s place amongst her people, something she’d fought so hard to earn.

 

God… would she even see Tali again?

 

The Kodiak settled onto a landing pad at the massive Cerberus space station. Despite its size, Shepard saw very little of it. She was again shown to the small, featureless room. She stood on the metal circle and waited as the holographic curtain enveloped her, transporting the commander back into the Illusive Man’s office. The terrorist leader was strutting around this time, blowing little clouds of smoke before finally turning to address the commander.

 

“Shepard, good to see you in one piece. I understand things were more exciting than our previous searches?” The Illusive Man’s question poked at her.

 

“Sounds like you already know.” She answered.

 

“Miss Lawson sent me a report while you were aiding the quarian with her dead.”

 

“I’m sure she did.” Shepard grit her teeth.

 

“Speaking of which, we received the Omni-tool data from the pilgrim, Veetor. Nothing extensive, but it does confirm that the Collectors are responsible.” The Illusive Man took a drag of his cigarette. “It’s a surprising olive branch. The data came from the Migrant Fleet’s official channels, straight from the admiralty. Quite the friend you’ve got, Shepard.”

 

“Amazing what you can accomplish by playing nice.” Shepard mused.

 

“Diplomacy is difficult when you’re already mistrusted, I’m sure your quarian could appreciate that.”

 

“I’m tired, could we cut to the chase?” Shepard’s remark got a flicker of annoyance out of the Illusive Man, but he quickly smiled again.

 

“Of course. Now that we know who’s behind the abductions and the tools they’re using, our next step is finding a way to counter this weapon they have, these… seeker swarms. Once we nullify the enemy’s advantage, we can start planning a counterattack and crush the threat permanently. Shepard, you’ve proven yourself the decisive woman I expect you to be, so I’ll say it plainly. I want you for this mission, I don’t think anyone else can destroy the Collectors.”

 

Hearing such praise from the man who’d tortured her friend and killed an Alliance admiral filled the commander with a kind of unease she’d never felt before. She’d seen it herself; the Collectors were taking people. Coupled with Tali’s account of the Reaper artefact and it was too big a threat to ignore. But this was Cerberus; whatever happened on this mission, she knew there’d be a plan in place to deal with her eventually. Aside from their political differences, Shepard had been personally responsible for disrupting many of the organisation’s plans before. They wouldn’t just forgive and forget. She sighed quietly; she hated being out of options.

 

“What kind of resources will I get for this mission?” She asked.

 

“You’ll be fully equipped, commander. I’ve got a ship ready for you, crewed and top of the line. You’ll have the latest in weapons and equipment, and credits whenever you need them, no questions asked.”

 

“I’ll need flexibility. If this is anything like hunting Saren, I can’t be tugged around on a leash.”

 

“You’ll have complete command of the mission Shepard. That’s why I chose you. Use whatever tactics you see fit, just get the job done.”

 

“What about my team? A ship and crew won’t be enough.”

 

“Miranda and Jacob have been assigned to your command for the duration of the mission. I’m also compiling a list of soldiers, scientists and other specialists. One of them, a master infiltrator has already accepted my offer. You’ll get dossiers on the others as we acquire them.”

 

“I don’t want Miranda on the team. She’s already undercut my authority.” Shepard said flatly. The Illusive Man’s brow rose.

 

“Miranda’s my best agent Shepard. She’s the only one I trust to work with you, and she’s the reason you’re alive now. This is non-negotiable, I’m afraid. But don’t worry; I’ll speak with her about your authority.” Shepard already knew it’d be pointless to argue, she’d have to cross that bridge when she got to it.

 

“Fine.” She relented.

 

“Good. Now, to start I want you to head to Omega. It’s a gritty little rock for outlaws in the Terminus Systems, and it’s the current address of professor Mordin Solus. We’ll need his help to develop our countermeasure.” The Illusive Man went to terminate the call when Shepard spoke up.

 

“We’re not done yet.” She said forcefully. The terrorist’s hand lingered over the controls, before he turned around again.

 

“Was there something else?”

 

“My old team, the ones who helped me fight Saren and the geth. I want them.” Shepard demanded.

 

“I’m afraid that may be impossible, Shepard. It’s been two years, they’ve moved on, changed allegiances.”

 

“I don’t care, where are they?” Shepard insisted, causing the Illusive Man to exhale in frustration.

 

“You’re friend Kaidan Alenko is still with the Alliance. He’s been promoted if I recall, and his file’s classified. Naturally he won’t be an option. Dr T’Soni seems to have hung up her digging gear for a job as an information dealer. My sources show she’s become entangled with the Shadow Broker, which means she can’t be trusted. The Krogan, Urdnot Wrex is on Tuchanka, but he’s currently embroiled in political turmoil there. He’s attempting to unite the krogan clans.”

 

“What about Garrus Vakarian?”

 

“The turian vanished shortly after your public funeral. So far we haven’t been able to find him, however…” The Illusive Man brought up a dossier. “…The vigilante Archangel does seem to match your friend’s description: A turian sharpshooter, leading a small band of mercenaries against organised crime on Omega. Who knows, you might get lucky?” He gave a shrug and grinned. Shepard hated the man’s smile.

 

“There’s one more thing.” Shepard said, fixing her eyes on the Illusive Man. “I want Tali’Zorah on the team.”

 

“I’m afraid it’s too early to tell if that’s possible. I’ll need more intel before I can-”

 

“No.” Shepard interrupted. “This is non-negotiable. I know you’ve got eyes inside the Fleet. She’s being dispatched on a mission into geth territory, that means either the Far Rim or Perseus Veil clusters. I want her location before I leave Omega.” The Illusive Man pinched the bridge of his nose.

 

“Shepard, you can’t allow your personal feelings to influence-”

 

“Do it or I walk.” Shepard stated bluntly. “You want me to stop the Collectors? You really believe I’m the only one who can do it? Either you have her location and dossier ready for me by the time I leave that asteroid, or I’m turning myself in to the Alliance.”

 

The Illusive Man couldn’t hide the anger on his face. He just stood there, silent for a long time. Shepard held his gaze, unwilling to budge. It was obvious the man wasn’t accustomed to ultimatums, at least ones aimed at him. The commander prepared herself for threats, or blackmail, but instead the old man’s face softened.

 

“If that’s what it takes to get you on board Shepard, we’ll find your friend. Tali’Zorah’s dossier will be ready before you leave Omega, you have my word.”

 

“Then I accept.”

 

“Good… oh, and I found a pilot I think you might like; I hear he’s one of the best. Someone you can trust.”

 

Without another word, the Illusive Man tapped his desk’s hologram and the call ended. Shepard was standing alone again, letting out a long-held breath. If nothing else, she’d be keeping one friend. Or so she thought.

 

“Hey commander?”

 

The voice pulled Shepard around faster than she thought she could move. Her eyes darted to the open door, unable to believe her luck.

 

“Just like old times, huh?” Joker’s easy smile turned to surprise when Shepard cleared the room with quick strides, scooping the smaller man into a hug. “Whoa, this wasn’t… quite how I thought this would go.” He strained between breaths.

 

“Jeff! You made it.” Shepard said, her heart swelling. Joker returned the embrace limply, struggling to breathe.

 

“Uh… death-by-hug, Shepard!” He eked out. Realising what she was doing, the commander set her friend down.

 

“Sorry Joker. You’re not hurt, are you?”

 

“…I’ll live.”

 

“God… I can’t believe it’s you.” Shepard said warmly, putting a gentle hand on his shoulder.

 

“Look who’s talking?” Joker retorted as the two of them headed up the stairs.

 

“Yeah, well. I got lucky… with a lot of strings attached. Gotta admit I never thought I’d see you in a Cerberus uniform.”

 

“In any normal galaxy I never would’ve. But after you were gone, everything just fell apart. Council broke the team up, buried everything under red tape and the Alliance took my wings. Then a couple weeks ago, I get a call from Mr Creepy Eyes telling me you’re alive.” Joker stopped, pulling the commander up with him. “When I saw you in that hospital bed… I thought it was a god damned miracle. They said they had a mission for you, and that you’d need a pilot. Where else would I be?” He said with a smile.

 

“It’s damn good to have you with me.” Shepard said warmly.

 

“It gets better.” Joker limped over toward a window looking into a blacked out room. The commander quickly joined him, unsure of what she was looking at. “They only told me last night.”

 

As if on cue, the overhead lights began to flash on in sequence. Section after section of what Shepard realised was a large hangar bay became illuminated, revealing the biggest surprise yet. Like drawing back an enormous curtain, something began to take shape: A ship, unlike any other in the whole galaxy… except for one. She was sleek, tapering from her nose back along a slim, aerodynamic hull. The perfect lines and curves of the fuselage gave way to a pair of swooping delta wings, sporting four powerful engines. At her stern was a pair of tail fins, sprouting out from the ships back in a ‘V’ shape. Shepard took it all in, unable to deny the sheer satisfaction of what she was seeing. The ship was different in a thousand little ways. She was nearly twice the size, done up in black and white with a splash of Cerberus yellow. But to Shepard and Joker, there was only one ship that could hold them like this.

 

“Feels good to be home, huh Shepard?” Joker giggled, barely containing himself.

 

“I guess we’ll have to give her a name.” Shepard replied, feeling her own grin widen.

 

The docking tube disconnected, retreating back from the newly christened frigate. After an hour of preparation, and a little extra paint, the hangar doors of Minuteman station opened. Joker’s excited fingers quickly found their rhythm again, working deftly across haptic responsive holograms as he brought the engines online. Without the slightest hindrance, four antimatter engines purred into life. At a simple touch, the powerful winged beauty began to slide forward. Coasting gently in zero gravity, the ship emerged from the gloom of her dry dock. Resplendent in the brilliant glow of the nebula, her full majesty became crystal clear. After two long years, this most loyal of companions had followed her commander back from death itself. Bigger and faster, she drifted out the last few hundred meters until she was fully clear of the station. Finally free, her thrusters roared and her mass effect core came alive. She shot away from the Cerberus base at light speed.

 

The Normandy… Reborn.

 

Commander Shepard walked the deck of her own ship for like she’d never left it. She took in the sight of men and women at their workstations, all of them busy. Looking down the long neck of her vessel, stretching from the bridge all the way to the Combat Information Centre, it felt like she could take a breath finally. The interior was well lit, the metal surfaces painted a dark grey, easing strain on the eyes. On the far wall of the CIC was the main elevator, connecting the ships four decks together. Either side of the elevator were doors leading further back, toward the armoury and main laboratory. After boarding with her, Miranda and Jacob had left to return to their posts. The bridge was empty, save for Joker, who Shepard only now noticed was grinning like a madman.

 

“Can you believe this Shepard, she’s perfect! Look at all this; zero margin reactive controls, lag-free data streaming from on board sensors, tiered readouts for enhanced situational awareness!” Joker paused, shifting his weight in his chair. “And leather seats! Man, military might set the hardware standard, but on a first-gen frigate? They couldn’t care less if the seats breathe.”

 

“The reproduction of the Normandy was not intended to be perfect, Mr Moreau. Seamless improvements were made.” A woman’s voice chimed in beside the two of them. Suddenly a small holographic avatar appeared on a nearby panel. The blue image kind of looked like a chess piece.

 

“What is that?” Shepard turned to Joker, who was already halfway through a full-throated groan.

 

“I am the Normandy’s artificial intelligence. My designation is Enhanced Defence Intelligence… but the crew like to refer to me as EDI”.

 

“Ee-Dee, huh? Joker, where’s the AI located, I’ll go shut it down.” Shepard said sternly.

 

“My AI core room is located past the med-bay on the Crew Deck. Have I offended?” EDI asked politely.

 

“I’m not having an AI on my ship.” Shepard answered. “Not after the geth, not after Hannibal.”

 

“Ah, I see. You’re distrust is logical. However unlike the geth, or the Luna incident VI, I am no threat to you or anyone else. My operating capabilities extend only to surveillance, intelligence and limited cyber-warfare. My processing power will be used to aid you however possible, and I cannot disobey the orders of this ship’s commanding officer. Additionally, my installation and continued functionality is outlined as critical to this mission. Any attempts to destroy me would result in immediate pulling of all support and funding, along with loss of control over this vessel.”

 

“Always a catch.” Joker sneered, side-eyeing the little hologram. Shepard ran her hand over her close-shaved head, giving an angered snort.

 

“So we’re stuck with you, then?”

 

“Correct.” EDI affirmed, with maybe the slightest hint of smugness. Shepard looked back at Joker.

 

“We’ll grin and bear it.” She said, defeated. “Set a course for Omega, we’ve got some specialists to round up.”

 

Joker gave a nod before turning his chair back to the screens, giving EDI’s avatar one last glower. Shepard made her way toward the elevator, doing her best to greet the new crewmembers as she passed them. Despite their employer, these people didn’t seem like terrorists. Most of them came across as normal, well-adjusted folks. There was clearly plenty of ex-Alliance, judging by the accuracy of the salutes. She walked around the main feature of the CIC, the galaxy map station. Like the original Normandy, this one also took up almost the entire middle of the room. There was a similar podium leading up to the map itself, with two workstations either side, one of which was occupied by a young red-haired woman. She turned around in anticipation, offering a civilian-style version of a salute.

 

“Hello commander. I’m your yeoman, Kelly Chambers.” She introduced herself cheerfully. “I’ll keep track of your incoming messages and help you monitor the crew.”

 

“I’m surprised that role would be filled by a person, Ms Chambers.” Shepard remarked, confused.

 

“Well, normally a Virtual Intelligence would do just fine. But, being your yeoman is just my official role. Unofficially, I’ll be keeping an eye on the crew’s mental health. High-risk missions like ours can put people under a lot of pressure. Having someone watching out for them, without a clipboard in their hand can help stop things from boiling over.”

 

“And you’re qualified for that?”

 

“Yes ma’am, I have a masters degree in psychology. I’m also trained in counselling, should anyone need it.”

 

“Sounds like a valuable skillset, Ms Chambers. It’s good to have you on board.” The young woman smiled at the compliment.

 

“Please commander, call me Kelly.”

 

“Okay, Kelly.” Now it was Shepard’s turn to smile. “I’ll be back up later, after I’ve looked the ship over.”

 

“I’ll be right here ma’am. Welcome aboard, and might I say, it’s such an honour to work with you!”

 

Shepard returned Kelly’s compliment with a polite nod as she entered the armoury. The long room was dominated by a number of tables, with all manner of firearms laid out on them. Several were in different states of disassembly, with cleaning rags piled nearby. At the far side of the room was a window looking out onto the drive core, with a simple bed pushed up against the back wall. Busy at a standing terminal, Jacob hadn’t noticed the door open.

 

“Jacob?” Shepard got the man’s attention and he spun around with an Alliance salute.

 

“Commander.” He answered sharply. “Is there anything I can help you with?”

 

“Just touring the ship, getting my bearings.”

 

“Of course ma’am.”

 

“I also wanted to… apologise for earlier.” Shepard could see Jacob flinch a little. “I shouldn’t have just attacked you like that.”

 

“Please commander, don’t dwell on it. I should have told you who I was, and where you were. I served for five years in the Alliance, if I’d woken up to Cerberus poking at me, I’d have punched them too.” He said with a chuckle.

 

“Still… you had it looked at?”

 

“Doc said I was fine, just bruising. I was kinda hoping for a scar, like an autograph almost. Biotic-punched by commander Shepard.” Jacob’s tone was light. Shepard was surprised.

 

“Y’know, you don’t really seem like the Cerberus type.”

 

“I’ve certainly got my limits.” Jacob admitted. “And I doubt you could find an organisation with a more chequered past. But this mission, stopping the Collectors? It’s gonna save a lot of lives, and I’ve got no problem with that.”

 

“What about Miranda? Where does she stand on all of that?” Shepard’s question seemed to dampen the man.

 

“Sorry commander. Miranda’s a friend, I’m not gonna put words in her mouth. Besides, she’s not shy, you’d probably get a better answer out of her than me.” The dodge annoyed her, but she let it go.

 

“I should get back to it.” Shepard excused herself, heading for the elevator after Jacob gave a friendly goodbye.

 

Realising she’d most likely spend the most time this first trip on the crew deck, Shepard decided to skip it, heading down to engineering. It felt strange, being there without Tali. She half expected to see her there, helmet buried in readouts, gloved hands tapping away at holographic keyboards. Her absence stung, but Shepard didn’t let it show. A pair of engineers, a man and a woman occupied the deck. Hearing the automatic door hissing open, they turned to greet her.

 

“Holy shite, you came all the way down here to see us?” The Scottish man asked in surprise.

 

“Ken, you’re addressing our commanding officer!” The woman chided him. She was an American, or so she sounded. Shepard raised a hand to calm them.

 

“You can relax. Right now I’m just touring the ship, getting to know my crew.”

 

“Oh, of course ma’am. Ken Donnelly, I’m responsible for the Normandy’s power control systems. My partner here is Gabby.”

 

“Thanks Ken.” Gabby said sarcastically. “The full name is Engineer Gabriella Daniels. I’m responsible for the Normandy’s propulsion and drive core systems. Is there anything we can do for you ma’am?”

 

“A little background couldn’t hurt.” Shepard suggested, maybe spooking them more than she meant to.

 

“There’s no need tae worry about us ma’am. We’re both Alliance techs, served on the SSV Perugia.” Ken answered.

 

“She was right in the thick of it during the battle of the Citadel. Helped rescue the Destiny Ascension. The two of us, we saw Sovereign first hand.” Gabby added.

 

“Aye, seeing a Reaper up close was how we ended up here actually.”

 

“What do you mean?” Shepard asked.

 

“After the first Normandy was destroyed, the Council and the Brass dismissed your warnings about the Reapers. They said Sovereign was a geth dreadnought, an isolated-”

 

“Which was bullshit!” Ken interrupted his friend. “With you gone, they overruled Councillor Anderson’s investigation into the Reapers. They smeared you in the press, calling you delusional. Seeing my superiors kowtow to the lie was bloody enough for me.”

 

“Exactly. We weren’t gonna stand for it. So we got vocal about the whole thing, and the captain said if we didn’t like it, we could quit. That was it, we were gonna go private sector when the Illusive Man made us an offer. Now we’re on the most advanced ship in the galaxy.”

 

“Getting’ ready to punch those Collector bastards right in their daddy-bags!” The pair’s zeal was enough to get a laugh out of Shepard.

 

“Sounds like the Normandy’s in good hands. Are you set up alright down here?” She asked.

 

“Aye, for the most part.” Ken glanced over at Gabby, who was shaking her head at him. “…It’s just, I wish it didn’t take so long to calibrate the FBA arrays and-”

 

“Kenneth, we said we weren’t gonna bother the commander with it!” Gabby spoke up, annoyed.

 

“Hey, if you need something to improve the ship, just tell me.” Shepard assured the woman.

 

“It’s not an efficiency problem ma’am, it’s maintenance. The current FBA couplings require recalibrating every day. If we had the T6 model instead, it’d save us a lot of time.”

 

“If the T6 model is more effective, why don’t we have it?”

 

“Well, Nashan Stellar Dynamics discontinued them. You’d probably have to try somewhere like Omega’s markets to find an aftermarket one. But… we don’t have time for shore leave.” Gabby admitted, deflating a little.

 

“We’re headed to Omega for our mission. While we’re there I’ll ask around and see what I can find.” Shepard’s offer received an eager thanks from the two grease monkeys.

 

Arriving on deck three, the commander took a stroll around the heart of the ship. By now she’d made out about twenty-four crewmembers give or take, all of who seemed the furthest thing from terrorists. Either they were masterful at deception, or Cerberus was just a logo on their uniforms. It was a pleasant surprise; she’d not been looking forward to spending months trapped with a bunch of Terra Firma types, especially when the inevitable addition of non-humans began. One person had given her pause however: The new Normandy’s handyman, Mess Sargent Gardner. At first glance, he seemed like most blue-collar men Shepard had met. Up and down, friendly and to-the-point.

 

During their chat however, Gardner let it slip he’d lost his family to batarians. Despite her deep understanding, Shepard toned down her sympathy. She approached the conversation neutrally, and after a while it seemed like the Mess Sargent’s opinions on other species were harmless. The rest of the conversation was easy going; she even managed to get a shopping list request out of the middle-aged man. A good idea really, there’d be a need to stock up on dextro rations, and hopefully sterilisation kits. Having met the crew, Shepard decided it was time to meet the ship’s doctor. When the door to the med-lab opened, the shock on her face was mirrored from the mature woman seated at her desk.

 

“Jane…” Karin Chakwas’ English accent was soothing in a way the commander had sorely missed. She got up from her chair, the both of them meeting in the middle of the room before embracing. After an enthusiastic squeeze, the doctor pulled away, brushing a tear from her eye.

 

“I’m glad you got out safe, Karin.” Shepard gave her a smile.

 

“It’s… good to see you again, commander.” The two of them sat down on one of the patient beds, taking a moment to decompress. It wasn’t long before Karin was looking Shepard over. “How are you feeling? I wasn’t told anything about the procedures you underwent.”

 

“Tired, mostly.” Shepard said with a crooked smile. “I’ve been on my feet for nearly twenty hours.”

 

“I should give you a check up, just to be…” She noticed blood dotting the back of Shepard’s uniform. “Christ Jane, you’re hurt already!”

 

Knowing better than to argue with her, Shepard obediently lifted her shirt, bunching it above her breasts. Karin ran her Omni-tool over the wounds, gently touching around them before tapping notes down.

 

“When did this happen?” She asked.

 

“Today, some frigid colony on Freedom’s Progress. Shrapnel from an explosion.”

 

“Only on your back… saving someone, I take it?” She always had been perceptive.

 

“A quarian.”

 

“Sounds familiar.” Karin chuckled.

 

“Funny you should say that.” Shepard started, before a wince escaped her. “You’ll never guess who I ran into.”

 

Karin stopped what she was doing. Shepard turned around to see a look of surprise and apprehension on her face.

 

“How is she? Did she come with you?” The older woman’s voice was tinged with worry. Shepard shook her head.

 

“No.”

 

“…I see.”

 

“But she’s doing good. She’s got a new suit, her own ship… Tali’s all grown up.” Shepard went quiet, staring off at the wall.

 

“Here.” Karin gave Shepard’s shoulder a squeeze. “Let me finish up with these wounds.” Shepard nodded, lifting her shirt again before uncomfortably bending forward. Grabbing a kit from her desk, soon Karin back at her side, gently removing the metal from Shepard’s back, before applying medi-gel and bandages.

 

“Bloody hell Jane, how is it you always manage to get yourself… oh my god.” The words escaped her mouth before she could stop them.

 

“What? What’s wrong?” Shepard felt her heart beat faster. For a moment, Karin didn’t answer. She silently scanned Shepard with her Omni-tool. By the time she’d finished, Shepard was facing her again.

 

“Look at this.” She said quietly. Her tool projected an image of Shepard’s body, what they saw left them both speechless.

 

Shepard got up from the bed, storming out of the med-bay before Karin could bring herself to speak again. She marched across the small mess area, teeth clenched. She rounded the corner to the XO’s office. Her ears were burning, after all the insults, the constant insubordination. Miranda hadn’t breathed a word about what Shepard had been put through. Would she ever have told her? Or was she supposed to find out like this, with a look of terror on her friend’s face. Punching the door’s hologram, she approached Miranda’s desk. Miranda looked up from her terminal, her well-practiced look of boredom slipping just a little.

 

“What the hell did you do to me?” Shepard asked, her voice low and dangerous.

 

“What are you-?” Miranda’s question was cut short. Shepard’s hand was around her throat, lifting the woman out of her chair before slamming her into the wall.

 

“Don’t play games with me!” Shepard snarled, holding her there. “I am not in the mood.”

 

“Let… go…. of me… now!” Miranda struggled the order past Shepard’s grip.

 

“You think you can fucking experiment on me?” Shepard hissed.

 

She slammed Miranda against the wall again.

 

“Just open me up?”

 

Slam!

 

“Violate my body?”

 

Slam!

 

“I am not!”

 

Slam!

 

“Some fucking!”

 

Slam!

 

“Lab experiment!”

 

What came next happened so fast Shepard could barely process it. Miranda’s own biotics came alive, her body curling into Shepard’s. Shepard felt her kick connect with her own stomach, sending a shockwave of pain through her. Then she was thrown through the air, propelled by an explosion of biotic power. Her skull struck the far wall with a crack. Shepard slumped to the floor, her head swimming. She looked up; a shadow was looming over her. Her eyes refused to focus, but she could hear Miranda’s voice.

 

“Pull… a…” She croaked out through gasping breaths. “…Stunt like that again… and I’ll kill you.” Her threat was punctuated by more hacking coughs.

 

“Oh… and for the record? That’s exactly what you are.”

 

She dug her fingers into Shepard’s shirt, hauling her upright.

 

“A fucking lab experiment.”

 

Holding Shepard steady, she brushed away some of the dirt from the scuffle. Finally her balance returned, and Shepard watched as Miranda’s fuzzy shape strutted over to her desk. She rummaged around for a moment before returning to Shepard.

 

“Here.” She thrust a data-pad into Shepard’s clumsy grasp. “Now get out.”

 

Shepard stumbled out of Miranda’s room, trying her best to stay upright. Clutching the pad to her chest, she took a deep breath. Why did she do that? Why had she attacked Miranda? She felt ashamed, disgusted with herself. There were a hundred better ways to have handled that situation. She could’ve asked about the implants, talked the truth out of her. But then she saw the image in the med-bay again. She saw the horror on Karin’s face. The woman Karin knew, torn apart and rebuilt into God-knows-what. She could still remember that flash of awareness she’d had, seeing Miranda and Wilson standing over her. Doing… all of this to her while she lay there helpless. Now her heart was pounding again, her skin burning with rage. Trapped for years, her body the plaything for deranged terrorists. She should’ve crushed the life out of her when she had the chance. That rage pulled at her feet, wanting her to go back inside that room and finish what she started. Instead, Shepard forced herself toward the elevator. She needed to get away from her, just long enough to calm down. Whatever was happening to her, she was exhausted, and she wasn’t thinking straight. Selecting the Commanding Officer’s quarters, the ride took only a second before the doors opened into a little threshold.

 

The inner door opened to a spacious captain’s cabin. The only room on deck one, it had an open layout with two tiers. The upper tier greeted her as she entered, containing a work desk built into the wall with a large display case mounted on it. There was a private terminal on it; similar to the one she’d seen in the CIC. Behind the desk, a wall panel opened to reveal the bathroom: Her own toilet and shower. A large fish tank, empty at the moment, dominated the left side of the room. The lower tier of the cabin was the “bedroom” so to speak. A large queen bed sat in the middle of the room, up against the back wall. It had a pair of bedside cabinets, with a larger wall cabinet left of it on the wall. To the right was another desk, and built into the corner of the lower tier was a corner couch, nestled in the crook formed by the upper tier desk. The accommodations were easily the best she’d ever had aboard a warship, hell, the setup would’ve been acceptable for an apartment. But something caught her eye. Just above the bed was a large skylight, the open window looking out at the stars. Immediately Shepard put her gaze ahead, moving the blackness out of her peripheral vision. Unable to find a switch, she decided to try something.

 

“EDI, can you hear me?” Shepard asked the question to the empty room.

 

“Yes Shepard.” The AI’s voice answered immediately.

 

“Where’s the switch to the cabin’s skylight?”

 

“The button is located behind the bed’s headboard on the left side.”

 

Shepard quickly found the button as pressed it, waiting until the shutter finished closing over the window before taking the room in properly.

 

“Are you feeling alright, Shepard?” She hadn’t realised EDI was still present.

 

“I’m fine.”

 

“Your heart-rate is elevated.”

 

“I said I’m fine. That’ll be all.”

 

“Of course.” With those words, EDI didn’t speak again.

 

Shepard walked over to her desk on the upper tier, subconsciously moving away from the now closed window. Sitting down in the chair, she placed Miranda’s data-pad down. A part of her just wanted to bin it, to not give Miranda the satisfaction of thinking she needed whatever validation was inside that everything was normal, that she’d simply been fixed. But the longer she sat there, the worse her curiosity became. Both she and Karin had already been exposed to the truth of Shepard’s condition, albeit only a glimpse. The Illusive Man had seen fit to mention Miranda’s involvement in healing her, and her memory of Miranda’s presence during surgery only confirmed it. Even if she’d lost control, gone too far when she entered Miranda’s room, Miranda knew something. The reality of their fight finally sunk in for the commander. She’d nearly killed her executive officer, barely an hour after coming aboard. Anywhere else and she would’ve been court marshalled. But somehow she doubted anything would come of it. If Miranda wanted to get rid of her, she was the type to do it personally. Shepard couldn’t decide if she felt better or worse at that realisation.

 

Unable to stand it anymore, Shepard grabbed the data-pad again. Attaching the small connector cable from it to her private terminal, the two devices began to sync up. Unsurprisingly, the pad refused to link with anything else wirelessly. Turning her attention to the laptop, she resized the holographic screen, projecting it up onto the display case glass. With the devices fully connected, she selected the only file folder available. Something called “Project Lazarus”. Soon a barrage of files loaded up, thousands of words of text, hundreds of images and nearly a dozen saved videos. All the files were dated to a little less than two years ago, with nearly seven hundred days of updates and logs present. Selecting the videos, she scrolled to the first one. It was labelled “Subject Recovery”. Her hand hovered over the keyboard, trembling. Did she really want to know? Wouldn’t it just be better to move on, accept whatever happened was necessary? She truly couldn’t imagine what she’d find inside, but the one thing she did know, was that it would be bad.

 

With a deep breath, she tapped the first video.

 

The screen flickered to life. The footage started in a white room, with a single surgery table in the centre under medical lamps. There was something on the table, hidden inside a high-tech container. Shepard felt her guts twist. Soon Miranda walked into the room, donned head to toe in surgical gear. A mask and face shield obscured her face; her dark hair tucked away.

 

“Lazarus Project day one. Time is… fourteen hundred hours. The subject’s body was transferred to my care today. As expected, it exhibits extreme damage from vacuum and sub-zero temperatures.”

 

She fiddled with a nearby control panel, and the container’s foggy glass cleared. Suddenly the view switched to a camera on her body, and Shepard supressed a wretch. Inside the box, was an almost unrecognisable corpse. Its skin was cracked and blackened, with half of it bubbled and twisted from burns, its breasts barely recognisable. All four arms and legs had clearly been cut away, with amputations at the shoulders and upper thighs. Below the skin, grey, exsanguinated flesh was present. Dozens of tubes and wires covered the whole thing, plugged in everywhere. They were passing strange fluids into it, Shepard couldn’t even guess at the purpose.

 

“Despite the damage, Wilson assures me that the subject is salvageable. Her brain was thankfully spared much physical trauma, and despite the lack of neural activity, the tissue structures are still present. Subject will undergo nano-reconstruction therapy immediately, to halt further degradation. Once the brain’s secure, we can move on to phase one proper.”

 

Shepard couldn’t believe what she was hearing. Even when she’d seen the extent of her surgeries in the med-bay, it had never even occurred to her that it could be worse. Even looking right at it, her mind didn’t want to accept it. Beyond the twisted, rotting flesh, she could still make out her own face. Shepard had to look away, exiting the video. She didn’t want to believe what she was seeing. It wasn’t possible. She couldn’t have actually died. There had to be something more, something else going on. Forcing herself to watch, she sat there for nearly two hours as her own body was cut into. She watched as every inch of skin was stripped away, replaced by cloned stock: Hundreds of Shepards, grown in vats to be butchered for spare parts. Amidst the utter horror she felt seeing her own form reshaped, she couldn’t even imagine the implications for those poor creatures that never even woke up.

 

Hundreds of days passed through the logs, more and more the corpse took on her appearance. Seeing her body in so many stages of flesh and bone had slowly blunted the shock. Shepard had never been squeamish, but this was… unbelievable. Sometimes the videos were of full teams of surgeons crowding her as they worked; sometimes it was just Wilson and Miranda presenting their findings. Other times it was just Miranda herself. Often she sounded angry, or frustrated. But never once did she treat the assignment with anything less than her utmost skill and attention. After day five hundred, phase two of the project began. The video started, just Miranda again.

 

“Lazarus Project, Day five hundred and forty. The subject has responded well to the cybernetic implants. Despite the risks, we simply don’t have the time for a full organic reconstruction. As I outlined in my written report, subject’s body is fully functional. Right now we have her intubated, with mechanical aid for respiration and blood-flow. Electro-stimulation of musculature has been successful, she’ll have zero loss of muscle mass. Despite the expense, Wilson was correct in pushing for synthetic tissue weaves. As of now, the subject’s bones, skin and muscles should be substantially reinforced. Theoretically, you’d need a tank to stop her.”

 

Miranda paused for a moment, looking over at the woman’s body resting on the table.

 

“However, our largest hurdle remains the subject’s brain. From what we can tell, the organ’s health is normal. The nano-structuring worked perfectly; there are no signs of deformation or tumours. Even her exact neural pathways have either been preserved or recreated. Yet no matter how we approach it, the subject can’t sustain electrical activity. When stimulated, the neurons appear to function normally. But after a few minutes, the patterns begin to change. Using legacy scans from Sheapard’s hard-suit computer, we can track her normal brain activity along a long-term scale. Once we get a consistent method of stimulating activity, we can move on the personality mapping.”

 

Miranda’s descriptions required the kind of medical and biology proficiency that Shepard just didn’t have, but hearing her talking about Shepard’s brain failing to wake up… was a kind of horrifying she wasn’t prepared for. One consolation however was that seeing her healthy body again didn’t upset her as much. While the corpse she’d seen hours ago still haunted her, she could rationalise it away as just a step toward her healing. The phase two videos made little sense to her. Most of them revolved around placing her comatose brain into virtual reality, playing back news report from her past, or strange prompts for her more personal memories. Most of them were general things. Mindoir, Elysium, her mission hunting Saren. Though seeing them force her to revisit the death of her parents again made her skin crawl. Oddly, the last video was dated nearly a month before she’d woken up. When the video played, it was Miranda again, looking dishevelled.

 

“Lazarus Project. Day six hundred and eighty nine: Supplemental, personal log. My eyes-only.”

 

Miranda took a breath, brushing her hair from her eyes.

 

“God, how do I start this? Despite the efforts of both Wilson, and myself… the project is a failure. While we can now stimulate neural activity consistently, the patterns just don’t correlate. I’ve spent the last two years learning everything I can about Commander Shepard: Her mind, her morals, her relationships with friends and family: The woman’s a hero… an icon. She openly defied her superiors multiple times to do what she thought was right, she even stole a warship under council lockdown. Her choices are similar no matter the situation, a non-violent person willing to take action when the time comes. I’ve been sitting here looking at brain activity from the entire Saren mission, thousands of hours of it. I set up electrical pulse stimulation to guide the subject’s neural pattern, following the hard-suit scans exactly.

 

Nothing works. The subject’s thought patterns deviate wildly from Shepard’s model. While in VR, the subject reacts to situations unpredictably, often times directly reversing her decisions. That’s just our biggest problem, but it’s hardly the only one. Subject’s reaction time and motor functions seem to be impaired, with substandard performance causing mission failure in nearly half of all simulations. Despite upgrades to L5n amps, subject shows negligible biotic improvement. She consistently operates below the acceptable threshold for dark energy manipulation, only spiking beyond potential when emotionally distressed. Which is another thing I can’t bloody fix. The subject’s emotional responses are overly heightened, even when placed into calming memories and situations. During critical moments of decision-making, subject supresses rational thinking, in favour of snap decisions.

 

The worst part is… I have absolutely no idea how to fix it. We’ve tried drug regimens, memory suppression, on the fly tweaks to electrical input. So far any attempts to control the outcome just makes her responses worse. Honestly, the worst part is sometimes she’ll relive a memory or a mission, and she’s completely consistent with Shepard. Again and again she’ll stumble across one of Shepard’s memories and react to it just like the commander would. It’d be inspiring, if it weren’t completely random. I brought up the idea for direct neural implants again after yesterday’s tests. The Illusive Man dismissed it… again. He’s completely forbidden me from cybernetically altering the subject’s brain in any way. He want’s Shepard exactly as she was. With all due respect, he’s letting his respect of the woman cloud his judgement. It’s become clear to me over the course of this project that you can’t just bring someone back. Like it or not, whoever we wake up on that operating table, it won’t be Shepard.”

 

“…It won’t be Shepard.”

 

The video ended, pausing on Miranda’s hopeless expression as she fumbled with the camera. The sounds of the ship seemed to dissipate, leaving Shepard sitting there in utter silence. The words repeated in her head, over and over again. She stood up from the table, feeling dizzy. Her heart was pounding; loud enough she could hear it in her ears. Stumbling against the wall, she felt the door panel slide out from behind her. She barely caught herself as she fell through it into the bathroom. Gripping the metal sink, Shepard pulled herself up and in front of it. For the first time since she’d woken up, she saw her reflection. She was missing features, dozens of little nicks she’d collected over her years of service. The only scar that remained was the one on her forehead, a small curved scar rising from the hairline. Looking closer, she was shocked to see she’d actually collected new scars. They were faint, but clearly there. Criss-crossing along her cheeks, under her chin, near her eyes. She touched her finger to one, pressing down on it gently. Something peeked out at her from below the surface. Something… glowing.

 

All of a sudden she could see it, the skin peeling away from her face. Greying, then blackening, the woman she was sloughing off into the basin. Blue, bloodshot eyes stared on in disgust and terror as her flesh followed, coming away in handfuls. Beneath the decaying meat, was a tangled mess of metal: A monster lurking just below the surface. Shepard’s breathing quickened, the woman trying to suck in shallow mouthfuls of air while she watched herself falling apart. EDI’s voice chimed again, asking her something. She sounded far away, unable to get through to Shepard. All she could do was stand there, shaking as she held on to the sink. Soon her teeth began to fall out, lights burning through the wet holes her eyes had once occupied. Try as she might, Shepard couldn’t look away. She couldn’t do anything, terror clawing at her mind. The small room began to spin around her, colours and shapes slurring together.

 

She heard something faintly outside the door, before she collapsed.
