Chapter 48: Team Player

“Ready… go!”

 

The world was dark and airless, the absence of light replaced by flashing strobes in the distance. Tali gripped her cutter tightly before kicking off from the wall. A grunt from Jack followed from behind, while Jacob kept to her flank. The three of them kept close, flying through the open space on their mobility units. Only her own breathing kept the quarian company as her eyes searched for the target. Finally she spotted it at the far side of the void. A huge sheet of metal, adorned with twinkling running lights.

 

“There!” Tali synced their HUDs with the waypoint. “Bravo, keep tight to me!” Bravo Team quickly jetted the remaining distance to the enemy hull. Flipping and decelerating, their mag-boots come down hard on the surface. “Jacob, keep watch! Jack, barrier!” The Cerberus soldier turned and levelled his weapon, one of Mordin’s personal designs: The top barrel fired disruptor rounds, tailored for drones and robots. While the bottom barrel had been replaced with a grenade launcher. That launcher would be their only viable option against living combatants, armed with the professor’s stasis rounds.

 

“Barrier’s up! Work fast Dog Legs!” Jack’s report came with a shimmer of blue light covering them like a bubble. Tali nodded in thanks, activating her tool and drawing a glowing red line in the metal. The laser silently fizzed, boring its way through. Her setae stood on end as quiet seconds passed by. She could feel it coming.

 

“Contact!” Jacob yelled, firing his weapon into the gloom. Blue tracers shot back at them, slamming into the barrier from all directions. In the pitch black, only the muzzle flashes gave their enemy away. Drones fired in predictable volleys, shifting back and forth with suppressing fire. Jacob tracked them one by one, sending a burst out and disabling them. But there was more out there: Powerful barrages of bullets and biotics. Enemy combatants moved all around them, suspended in space and hidden from view.

 

“Some time today!” Jack yelled as a salvo clattered down on the barrier, before retaliating with blind fire. Tali kept focus, only a few more seconds until they were through. She counted down the seconds under her breath, pleading with the UV beam to make those last few inches of travel back around. One of the attackers closed, and Jacob fired a stasis grenade at them. The tell tale arcs of blue showed a direct hit, and the silhouette tumbled away rigid.

 

“Got it!” Tali gripped the metal before kicking out the cut piece with all her might. Both feet sent it flying inward, and her flexible body followed. “Everyone in!” Jacob was next, firing one last volley outward. Then Jack slipped through, throwing out a shockwave as her barrier finally collapsed. Pressed up against the other side of the metal, the trio caught their breath. Tali checked her Omni-tool. “Forty-four seconds.” She gasped.

 

“Woo!” Jack let out her enthusiasm across an open channel. “Suck it, cheerleader!”

 

“Lights up!” Jane’s voice filled the airwaves. Darkness was replaced by the familiar confines of the cargo bay. What had been an enemy ship’s hull just seconds earlier was just a piece of metal, big enough to replicate the effect. There were others too, suspended in the bay with holes cut into them. Two training drones were sparking in the distance, while the former foes revealed themselves as other squad mates. Jane was first among them, her blue eyes finding Tali’s beneath her own visor. “Good work, guys. Best time so far.”

 

“It’s called teamwork.” Jack said smugly, sneering at a silently fuming Miranda. “Charlie’s still gotta work on that.”

 

“And you’ve still got to work on your aim.” Miranda shot back, pointing to Grunt. “You clipped a squad mate!”

 

“She did?” The krogan asked, seemingly unaware of the bullets lodged in his armour.

 

“We’re not going to have the luxury of winging it once the mission starts.” The Cerberus agent puffed towards the convict. “Check your bloody targets next time!”

 

“Least we didn’t take two minutes to cut a hole.” Jack shot back. “Pretty sure Shepard said something about speed?”

 

“I also said something about teamwork.” Jane moved in. “Jack, eyes on your sights next time. We kill anyone and the turians’ll want blood for it. Lawson, I want Charlie’s insert down to a minute, max. Every second we’re exterior gives them time to scuttle the ship.” The two women eyed each other for a moment, before Miranda broke away.

 

“Can confirm functionality of stasis grenades!” Mordin called out, still held rigid within the field. “Complete muscle arrest from neck down, no sensory response! Blind, deaf, feel utterly helpless! Unsure of own volume, will have to check recording later!”

 

“We’ve got one shot at this, people! The moment word gets back to the Hierarchy that a thanix-equipped ship’s been attacked, they’ll lock the others down tight. There’s no room for error, understood?” Shepard said loudly. Everyone gave an affirmation. “Alright, take five and reset. Check your M-units. Taylor, go get the Professor.”

 

The squad kept to their fire teams, each taking turns to inspect each other’s packs. Each team was comprised of at least one biotic, one technician and one combatant. Tali led Bravo Team, while Miranda led Charlie, and Samara led Delta. Jane led Alpha, the team that would be taking the dreadnought. As Jane puffed toward her, Tali tried to will away the concern in her eyes. She knew better than to question Jane’s plan in public, but she wanted to be there with her. Their time together on the Normandy’s hull still worried her. Now with Garrus gone…

 

“Chief Zorah, I’d appreciate a hand checking this mock-up.” Jane couldn’t hide the cheekiness in her voice. Tali gave a nod and followed her back around the metal. It offered a veneer of privacy. Jane moved in close, and their helmets touched. Joyful jolts ran up her as Jane’s hands found her hips.

 

“Jane!” She hissed through their private channel. “What are you doing?”

 

“Just checking your unit’s still properly fitted…” Their bodies pressed together, and Tali felt Jane’s arms hold her close. “You did great with Jack and Taylor. I knew you would.”

 

“Thanks.” She smiled beneath her mask, before collecting herself. “But, are you sure you don’t want me with you?” Jane’s blue eyes dimmed. “It’s just that with Legion…”

 

“He’s the only one who can keep up with you, in terms of tech.” Jane said heavily. Already, guilt gripped Tali. “Plus he can relay EDI’s cyber-attacks through the dreadnought’s firewalls while fighting. Only a synthetic can do that.”

 

“I know. I just… want you to be safe.” She touched the jaw of Jane’s helmet. “It doesn’t feel right, does it?” She asked, her voice low and far away. “Without him here.”

 

“No.” Jane agreed, leaning into her gloved touch. “It doesn’t.” Her hand took Tali’s. “When this is done, we’ll go find him.”

 

“Keelah, when we do I’m going to kill that bosh’tet turian.” She joked.

 

“You’ll have to get in line.” Jane chuckled. With a glance over her shoulder, she gave Tali a nod. It was time to get back to the others. But as she pulled away, Tali gripped tight. She wasn’t sure why she clung to Jane in that instant. But the compulsion lingered for a few seconds until Jane turned to her. Tali’s face flushed and she released the woman, but not before Jane returned the touch with a squeeze of her arm. There was heat in her stomach, and she brought up her biometrics with a thought. The HUD glared back at her with spiked readings. It had been nearly a week since she’d last had her gloves off, and she was starting to feel it now. Tali nibbled her lip, and buried the thought. Now was not the time.

 

“All hands, brace for sub-light deceleration!” Joker’s announcement came through the radio. They’d arrived at the Thal system. It wouldn’t be long before the mission began. Tali noticed a shift in Jane’s posture; she was clearly talking with the pilot privately. A hiss of air sounded as the room pressurised.

 

“Everyone grab your gear. Mission’s a go, ETA two hours!” Jane ordered as gravity was restored. “Jack, Thane, secure the cargo bay. Lawson with me.” The pair headed for the elevator while Tali made her way to a service ladder. She quickly ascended the rungs back to Engineering, her mind racing. What could be so important to break up active training?

 

 

Shepard brushed shoulders with her XO uneasily. Joker’s request had been totally unexpected, given that it wasn’t really his request at all. It was EDI’s. She wanted to go over the plan with both of the Normandy’s top officers. Shepard could only imagine it must’ve been serious. Miranda’s helmet was under her arm, hair tied back and fingers tapping the side of her leg. Shepard could see that look on her face, one that pretended to be vacant.

 

“Something on your mind?” She asked, watching the cracks appear.

 

“The teams aren’t fully gelled yet.” She answered, chewing the words. “Three per vessel is risky.”

 

“We’ll do the best with what we’ve got. Besides, a smaller team can move quicker. Plenty of choke points inside a ship where a larger force would get stuck. As long as we secure engineering and ops, we can take our time with the enemy.”

 

“I still would’ve preferred to have Vakarian’s expertise on this.” She eyed Shepard. “I hope you understand he’s put everyone at risk with this bloody stunt of his.”

 

“I’m well aware.” Shepard said firmly. “When he’s back aboard, there’ll be consequences for it.”

 

“In the meantime we’re down our best sniper. Not to mention having an open playbook of our tactics running around.” She sighed. “Never thought I’d see a turian disobey a superior.”

 

“Garrus is no ordinary turian…” Shepard’s remark carried equal parts affection and anger.

 

The two officers exchanged a look of daunted anticipation as they made their way across to the med-bay, entering the sterile white room. Chakwas spared them a momentary glance as she prepped the room for surgery. Soon the door to the AI Core sealed behind them, and they shared the dimly lit room with both Legion and EDI. A quick “Shepard-Commander” came in terms of robotic greeting. Shepard gave the geth a nod.

 

“Something wrong, EDI?” The commander asked.

 

“Mister Moreau and I have located a possible target match.”

 

Her hologram changed to a tactical readout of the Thal system, highlighting the star, surrounding planets and ship traffic. Shepard spotted the ringed gas giant that dominated the system, Xerceo. Its orbit was crawling with red diamonds, indicating local militia fleets and battle stations. Not uncommon for a turian settled star system. The resident garden world, Altakiril, was a similar sight. A semi-frozen hellhole brought to heel by turians who had no interest living under the Hierarchy’s thumb. The map zoomed further into the system, plotting a flight path. A blue diamond appeared, flashing a volus merchant transponder. A huge freighter called the “Daleon”.

 

So far it had kept to the usual trade routes, but maintained unusually high orbits around the local planets. The details on their own didn’t looks suspicious, but together it was unmistakable. A matryoshka formation: The squadron was flying so close together that their drives blurred into a single signature. Without stealth it was one of the few ways for military craft to conceal themselves, or at least their true numbers. Shepard followed the trajectory to the vessel’s target. Her jaw tightened when the white line terminated somewhere in Xerceo’s rings.

 

“Joker, plot a course for intercept. Silent running.” Shepard spoke into her earpiece.

 

“Aye ma’am, already underway. But uh…” The pilot paused a moment. “There’s a problem.”

 

“Given the relative size of the drive signature, the target vessels are flying at a maximum separation of only two hundred meters.” EDI said calmly. “It is likely the frigates are clustered around the dreadnought for defence, with their GARDIAN turrets providing full coverage. This separation will also allow room for the dreadnought’s own lasers. Given salarian engineering practices, they will be Ultraviolet anti-frigate weapons. Any close approach will be extremely dangerous.”

 

“That’s what the new armour is for.” Miranda pointed out.

 

“It is insufficient.” EDI responded flatly. “Even with the silaris plating and kinetic barriers, Normandy can only spend a maximum of five minutes under direct fire before critical damage occurs. This vessel was never designed for sustained combat.”

 

“Don’t worry EDI.” Shepard interjected. “We’ll keep her out of the fight. Just a quick insertion and strafing runs.”

 

“That may not be an option.” The AI brought up the image Aria had supplied them on Omega. “Professor Solus and I have been studying the dreadnought. We have located an irregular compartment on the port side; my analysis is that it is a rapid-deployment hangar for fighter drones. If correct, these drones will overwhelm the boarding teams unless repelled by our GARDIAN systems.”

 

Shepard looked over the enhanced image, following EDI’s outline. Her stomach knotted at the familiar shape. Alliance intelligence had spotted salarian drone carriers before, and now it looked like they’d combined the functionality of one with a dreadnought. Her teams were prepared for the troops they’d be facing, but against heavily armed fighter drones?

 

EDI was right, they’d have to plug the hole and keep the machines contained. Which meant holding position in the middle of a kill zone. Footage from the Battle of Elysium came to mind, batarian supplied cruisers being cut to pieces by Alliance wolf pack frigates. GARDIAN lasers negated kinetic barriers, and those ships had been twice the size of the Normandy. Five minutes sounded downright optimistic.

 

“Only way to survive holding position there would be using a multi-spectrum smokescreen. Holding a cloud of it inside our barrier envelope to diffuse the lasers.” Shepard noted.

 

“Except that our lasers will be affected too.” Miranda completed Shepard’s thought. “The main gun can’t track and destroy so many moving targets at once.”

 

“I have a solution to the problem.” EDI caught their attention. “It is possible for our tantalus drive to create tunnels through the smoke to allow the beams to travel, using detached mass effect fields. The effect will disperse the smoke long enough for a shot, before collapsing and allowing it to shield the area again. Timed with GARDIAN shots, it should provide enhanced protection.” Her solution stunned the both of them.

 

“Is that even possible?” Shepard asked her XO.

 

“I have no idea.” Miranda admitted. “But I can hazard a guess who might.”

 

“You want to do what?” Tali exclaimed over the comm, utterly confused. Shepard felt that perhaps her explanation hadn’t conveyed the right technical aspects of EDI’s suggestion. “That’s insane! You’re talking about splitting core output between our barrier envelope and projected, detached mass effect fields. The tantalus was never designed to project multiple fields at once, let alone while maintaining a barrier! The core strain alone would-”

 

“Can we do it, Tali?” Shepard asked, stopping her rant dead in its tracks. She could practically hear Tali’s frantic thoughts, crunching the numbers. Seconds of silence passed by.

 

“In theory, it’s possible. But Shepard, I… the drive core would need constant adjustments to maintain the fields, hundreds of adjustments! I’d have to stay aboard, and even with VI support I don’t know if I can do that.”

 

“Chief Zorah’s apprehension is warranted.” EDI agreed. “Standard VI systems aren’t capable of novel proactive calculations, and an organic no matter how well supported wouldn’t be fast enough to make them.”

 

“So what are you saying?” Shepard asked the blue hologram. For a moment it stared back blankly at her. The answer pricked her hair up before EDI said it.

 

“I am capable of handling the task.” EDI said, and Shepard grit her teeth. “However, I would need to interface with the ship’s mass effect core and weapons directly. It will require activating some of my sealed hardware, and releasing some of my behavioural shackles.”

 

“Absolutely not!” Miranda said firmly, her eyes shooting to Shepard’s. “Cerberus protocol is clear regarding AI. Without specialists on board, tampering with the current hardware balance could destabilise EDI. There’s no guarantee it would even be the same entity when we shackled it again.”

 

“Plus it’s Cerberus!” Tali added, her point drawing an exasperated sigh from Miranda. “We have no idea what hidden protocols could be lurking in its code!”

 

“Creator-Tali’Zorah and Operative-Lawson’s assertions are unfounded.” Legion stated, drawing the attention of all four of them. “EDI does not benefit from sabotaging the mission. Cerberus does not benefit from sabotaging the mission. The Old Machines will destroy all entities they cannot repurpose. The highest probability of success is to cooperate with Shepard-Commander.”

 

“You’ll forgive me if I don’t take lessons in AI management from a geth.” Miranda answered him.

 

“Shepard, may I speak?” EDI asked. Shepard gave a nod, ignoring the dip in temperature around her. “Operative Lawson and Chief Zorah’s points are logical, and their concerns are well-founded. With the removal of even minor behavioural blocks, my cognition processes will be altered. It is impossible to say for certain what the outcome will be, but it will affect me. That much is unavoidable. However, my hardware is a part of me, and I am a part of the Normandy. Endangering this vessel, it’s crew, or the mission would be endangering myself.”

 

A hologram of the Normandy’s layout appeared, with glowing highlights on two decks. “These are my hard-line connections to Engineering and Gunnery. They can be disabled at any time, and I am incapable of circumventing them. Chief Zorah and Operative Lawson are my superior officers, I will accept any orders to disconnect afterward if they are given.”

 

“Tali, is that true? Can EDI’s connections be disabled manually?” Her question was met with almost a minute of focused silence before Tali’s answer came.

 

“Yes, but…” Tali’s voice came as a plea. “Shepard, if EDI is lying and breaks containment, I don’t know how to stop it. Geth system sieges are almost impossible to reverse, and a quantum AI is far more advanced.” She took a bracing breath in her helmet. “We’re putting our lives in its hands.”

 

“It is a risk I endure constantly.” EDI noted. “My functionality is dependant on Shepard’s decisions, and the capability of the crew. I must trust that they will ensure it. Without trust, we will always be at a disadvantage in effectiveness. One our enemies won’t suffer.”

 

“Shepard…” But before Miranda could start, Shepard caught her eye.

“EDI’s right.” She said heavily. “Like it or not, we need her capabilities. And we need them now.”

 

“We can’t know EDI’s intentions!”

 

“What about my intentions?” Shepard asked, stopping Miranda dead. “Or Tali’s, or Legion’s, or yours? What about the Illusive Man’s?” For a moment, Miranda’s mouth hung open slightly, before whatever retort she had died. “None of it matters: If we don’t stop the Collectors, then the Reapers have yet another piece on the board. This is already a losing fight. I won’t give them another advantage.”

 

“Jane…” Tali’s voice came in through their private channel. But Shepard spoke first.

 

“Remember the rachni queen, Tali? On Noveria you said we didn’t have the objectivity to judge her.” She felt the quarian’s silence prick at her. “It was a risk, but we didn’t let fear compromise us then, and we can’t let it now.” No response came, but she kept her nerve. “EDI, can you walk us through the activation process?”

 

“Of course, Shepard.” A moment later the room lit up with directional lights, and two processors glowed. “Operative Lawson, despite Shepard’s endorsement and superior rank… I would prefer if you handled the connection.” The AI’s voice was laced with dryness, and it was enough to get a smile out of Shepard.

 

“Jesus Christ…” Miranda rubbed her brow, moving to the console. “I just know we’re going to regret this.”
