Chapter 52: Angels and Demons

The slur of awakening sharpened into total awareness. Garrus’ eyes flashed open as pain bit into his wrists. He instinctively tried to relieve the ache when that sharp pinch hit him again. His wrists were shackled to the arms of a metal chair. One made for turians but lacking the faintest hint of comfort. His ankles found the same painful restraint, and another unconscious moment of struggle revealed the chair itself mag-locked to the floor. Reptilian eyes darted around the room. Inky blackness stared back, obscured by a blinding light above him. The blinking of a camera shone from the dark, and Garrus’ heart sank as he realised the interrogation room for what it was.

 

Something twisted inside the turian. He had no recollection of events since those last moments on the floor of Harkin’s foundry. The hot stench of blood in the air, the stomping of boots and echoing gunfire, those terrified eyes shining back from the vent. Lia, what had happened to her? The uncertainty bit deeply into Garrus, guilt mixing with anger. The little voice that had begged him not to go, had pleaded with him to stay by Shepard’s side, to let go of revenge, now it roared. He felt its jeers deep inside, as the hopelessness of the situation set in. He had abandoned his friends, risked their safety and his own, thrown away the chance to pursue a new purpose, to find himself again… for nothing.

 

It had all been for nothing.

 

“You’re awake.” A familiar voice crept out of the gloom. Garrus turned to face it but saw nothing. “Lights!” Intense white glare flooded all around, blinding the turian. His eyes clenched shut reflexively. When he opened them again, the world came back into slow focus. His suspicions had been right, and now his cell revealed a black-clad figure. One that boiled his blood.

 

“Morinth.” Garrus said caustically, glaring at the asari sauntering up to him. Those bone-white eyes looked down hungrily. It was only now, trapped in this cage with her, that it hit him. The nagging thought in his mind bloomed into realisation. This asari could have been Samara’s exact twin. Everything from her bone structure to the colour of her skin. Only her eyes betrayed the truth. What was in them, or the lack thereof. It could not be coincidence, even if she couldn’t have been farther from the justicar in every other way.

 

“You look terrible.” She observed with a cruel smile. “You talk in your sleep, you know that?” She leaned down to him. “Sometimes, it sounds like you’re begging for-” Without a word Garrus exploded forward, headbutting the asari. Morinth recoiled just a second too late, and a grunt of pained anger sounded thickly from her. Biotic energy yanked Garrus back, and rage seared across her features as indigo blood drooled from her nose.

 

“You don’t look so good yourself.” He said icily. Biotic force pressed down on his throat.

 

“You’re going to regret that!” Morinth hissed, eyes a deep black.

 

“And risk upsetting your boss?” He strained, holding her gaze. She glared at him for a long moment, then the crushing biotic field dissipated.

 

“Enjoy your protection while it lasts.” She warned, calming herself. “Too bad your little suit rat wasn’t so lucky.” His satisfaction withered under her grin. She let it sit while she wiped the blood away. “Good thing you were unconscious. She screamed for hours.”

 

Garrus felt white hot hatred blazing beneath his plates. He gritted his beak and forced himself to bury it. Instead, he focused on trying to glean an idea as to where he was. There was a lightness in his stomach. It was subtle, but noticeable. That mild, unmistakeable nausea had been part of his life for an entire solar year, his first posting with C-Sec. Wherever here was, it had to be on the Presidium. A modern interrogation room, somewhere on the Presidium. There were not many places this room could be, and unless he’d found himself in the home of a particularly wealthy – and unhinged – hobbyist, it had to be somewhere official. C-Sec headquarters was unlikely, given Executor Chellic’s penchant for protocol. Whatever his captors had pulled at the foundry was not legal. Which left…

 

“Pretty risky bringing me to the Asari Embassy, isn’t it?” His guess came out with cool confidence. Morinth’s was the face of a seasoned, professional liar. But a momentary tremor crossed it. One he caught. Another flash of anger gleamed in her eyes when he flared his mandibles.

 

“Are you going to cry for help?” She asked sardonically. “It didn’t work for your friend.”

 

“No. But since you’re so eager to answer my questions…” He returned a barb of his own. “Maybe you could answer this one? Why’d you wait so long to nab me? Surely it was an unnecessary risk, right? Why didn’t you do it when we first met?” Garrus asked. “Why wait until Harkin?”

 

Morinth regarded him, eyes wandering over his body. “I could say it was about verifying your identity, making sure you weren’t up to something. Ex-cop with a Spectre buddy, that’s a dangerous mark. But to be honest, I knew you were alone the minute I saw you. Alone, desperate, pathetic. You were so eager to cuddle up to a kindred spirit, weren’t you? And the girl you saved? Goddess, how you loved being that little quarian’s hero.” Morinth chuckled mockingly. “Not that it mattered much in the end, huh?” She indulged another cruel silence. “A deluded, wannabe hero. Now that’s a rare treat. And there’s nothing sweeter than seeing the hope drain from their eyes, at the end, when the pain truly starts. And when the boss lady is done with you, I am going to savour it.” Her voice was low and hungry.

 

It was clear to him now. Her uncanny appearance, her closeness to matriarch Dantius. That twisted mind lurking behind the smile. He could almost recognise some lingering part of it back at the tower on Illium. “You’re the one she’s after, aren’t you?” Garrus asked, and Morinth’s eyes narrowed dangerously. “You’re Samara’s fugitive.” The rage from earlier was gone, replaced by molten hated.

 

Biotic energy gripped him again, as the asari leaned in close. “Not anymore.” Morinth growled, before her sneer became a toothy grin. “I’m somewhere even the bitch herself can’t reach.”

 

The door opened behind them. Morinth pulled away, and Garrus shifted his gaze as a tall, graceful silhouette entered the room. She wore the elegant, white tunic of a luxury asari designer, but the tailoring was practical and reserved. Form-fitting trousers hugged her legs and polished boots clicked against the floor. A rich, blue capelet adorned her left shoulder, the mark of high military rank within the Asari Republics. Amethyst scales formed an angular, beautiful face. Those cerulean eyes were hard and disciplined. They regarded him like he was a piece of cargo.

 

“How is he?” Melassania spoke to Morinth but kept her eyes on him.

 

“Aware, lucid.” Morinth grunted, touching her bloody nose.” No permanent damage. Like I promised…” she added quietly. Dantius nodded.

 

“Go, get some rest. I may need you later.” The matriarch’s words were tinged with barely detectable warmth, but Morinth seemed to feel it. “My lady.” She bowed her head, before sparing him a final look. “See you soon.” Then she was gone.

 

Melassania’s lone presence did little to undo the knot in Garrus’ stomach. Too much had been exchanged between them that he did not understand, save for that it somehow involved him. Bound as he was to the torture chair, the already tall asari towered over him. He felt her eyes on him long before he met them.

 

“Charming girl.” Garrus rasped.

 

“She has her talents.” Dantius gestured to his bloodstained forehead. “Seems like you gave as good as you got.”

 

“Torture’s no fun if you don’t participate a little, right?” Garrus twisted his shackled wrists. “Love the back-alley style, by the way.”

 

“I’ve seen your technical scores from Cyrenaica and the reports from your naval tours. I’m also aware of your habit to act without thinking.” She said simply.

 

“Got me all tied up for your protection?” He scoffed.

 

“You’ve got it backwards, Garrus. The restraints are there for your protection.” Melassania warned. “I may know your range scores and psych profile, but I’d wager you don’t know the first thing about me. And the limits of my patience are not where you want to begin your education.” Her eyes grew cold and hard, and the threat dug down under his plates and stayed there.

 

“So, what is this? Come down to do some torturing of your own?” He asked. “You seem the type who enjoys the personal touch.” Melassania opened her omni-tool, as if she were completely disinterested.

 

“No, I’m not here to torture you. Whatever information you think is of interest to me, I already have. I know about your mission to stop the Collectors. Right now, you’re trying to find a way through the Omega-Four Relay, isn’t that right?”

 

Garrus’ heart sank.

 

“Of course, your terrorist friends weren’t quite so bold in the beginning. I understand there was an attempt to fend the Collectors off. It would seem your failure at Horizon did away with that idea, though. Of course, you nearly lost quite a bit more than the colony that day.”

 

“Your little dossier doesn’t impress me.” He grunted, claws digging into his palms.

 

“You know…” Melassania brought up an image. “When I met Shepard on Bekenstein, I just assumed she’d been in hiding. Figured she’d slunk off on some undercover mission, left you all to mourn as per Spectre protocol.” She shook her head. “I wonder what the Council would say if they knew. That Cerberus had cloned Commander Shepard. Imagine the doors that would open for them, the trust it could gain them. I mean if it can fool her closest associates…” She gestured to the turian. “There really is no telling what Cerberus is capable of.”

 

“What do you want?” Garrus snarled. The restraints bit into his wrists, but if he heard this bitch call his friend “it” one more time, he’d tear his hands clean off to get at her.

 

“I want to give you a chance.” Melassania answered. “And by extension your colleagues, with a few exceptions. Given what I know about you, it’d be a waste to continue down this path. You were a good cop, Garrus. Sparatus’ fear over public backlash denied the galaxy what would’ve been a valuable new Spectre. Your actions against Saren speak for themselves, as do those of Miss Zorah. And Doctor Solus, well, his reputation precedes him. You all deserve better than to hang for the crime of doing what you thought was right.” She steepled her fingers. “After all, the Collectors must be stopped.”

 

“Why?” Garrus asked, still angrily processing what he had just heard. “What’s your stake in the Collectors?”

 

“The same as your current employer. Technology.” She wrinkled her nose. “Except unlike Cerberus, I plan to use whatever is found on the Collector home-world to actually do some good for the galaxy. Like finally bringing the Terminus Systems to heel. With room for expansion, we can set about properly fortifying ourselves against any….” She fixed him with a knowing look. “…Uknown threats.”

 

“And I imagine your company will just so happen to have first dibs.” Garrus said. Dantius shrugged.

 

“Personal gain and one’s duty need not be mutually exclusive. In fact, I find that people work best when these two forces are perfectly aligned.” She smiled coldly. “Your exclusion from the Spectres was a mistake. A mistake that I can rectify with a single vid call. Tevos will listen to me, and the others will listen to her. And when you’re sworn in, you can start being the leader you’re supposed to be. The one your men followed.” Garrus’ blood froze in his veins. “Instead of… whatever this is.” She gestured to the wretched turian before her.

 

“How do you know all this?” His demand tinged by grief. Dantius looked at him levelly but didn’t answer.

 

“So, to that end, I want you to contact Shepard and convince her to surrender. When she arrives at the Citadel she will be taken into custody, along with the other terrorists and criminals aboard the Normandy. After that’s done, I’ll have your ship and colleagues reassigned to your original goal: Stopping the Collectors. No more hiding, no more warrants. The official story will be that you were acting undercover as a Spectre to infiltrate the Cerberus cell, along with Miss Zorah and Doctor Solus. The three of you will be granted full clemency and returned to active duty with a contingent of my best commandoes.”

 

“In exchange for answering to you.” He said the quiet part aloud. She smiled.

 

“Precisely.”

 

“What about Shepard?” Garrus asked, a new intensity in his voice. “What happens to her?"

 

“Given the particulars of the clone’s involvement with-”

 

“Shepard!” Garrus cut in loudly, eyes fierce on her. “I don’t care what your people wanna call her, but if we’re going to talk, you’ll call her by her damn name!” Melassania glared at him a moment, then sighed.

 

“Given the particulars of Shepard’s involvement with Cerberus, I believe it would be unfair to try… her for treason. Surgical implants, extensive psychotherapy, potential genetic tampering during gestation. All these factors could impact how she thinks and operates. A bias toward Cerberus would be expected, along with a sustained delusion regarding her identity. Honestly, it makes her more of a victim than a perpetrator. But she’s still dangerous, very dangerous. Her ability to compel others to follow her, along with her retained ops prowess mean that we can’t take any chances. My recommendation will be that the Council place Shepard in a psychiatric hospital until we can determine the extent of her mental state, and her fitness for duty. Perhaps, later, we can clear her for duty again.” Her words were diplomatic.

 

“But until then, you’ll lock her up.” Garrus said acidly.

 

“For her own good, Garrus. And yours.” Melassania eyed him. “You might not want to believe it, but this woman, this… person you think you’ve gotten back? It’s not Shepard. It’s an imitation, designed by humans that don’t even have the base decency to respect their dead.” She sighed. “That’s what Shepard is, Garrus. She’s dead.”

 

“No.” Garrus said defiantly.

 

“Yes, Garrus. She is.” Melassania’s voice was calm. “If you want what’s best for this new Shepard, then she needs to be disabused of the lies she’s been saddled with and given time to find an identity of her own. The truth, Garrus. Don’t you think it’s time for the lying to stop?”

 

“How the hell do you know all this!?” He yelled, rage and pain searing his chest. Dantius looked at him levelly.

 

“There’s one more clause to this offer, Garrus. Typically, I’d consider it an unnecessary risk, but I know how it feels to run out of time.” Her face was grim. “Sylvana’s condition has worsened. My sources tell me she may only have a week left. If you accept my offer, and follow my orders to the letter, I’ll put you on an express flight to Palaven today. I will give you the chance I never had. A chance to say goodbye.”

 

Garrus looked at the floor. Bile churned in his stomach as agonising panic clawed into every part of him. Solana’s message flashed before his eyes again. “Need you home.” Only now did the desperation in those three words finally hit him. They came down like a hammer, threatening to crush the last of his resolve into dust. Sol would never forgive him, nor would dad. But worse, Garrus knew that he would never forgive himself. The woman who had taught him his first words, had cuddled him in the dark after a nightmare. The woman who had supported his decision to leave C-Sec and follow his beliefs… mom was going to die, with only a faded memory of her son for company.

 

Unless he took the deal. A deal that would betray the woman who came back from death for him. Beneath the roiling cauldron of emotions Garrus felt, he wished dearly that he had told Shepard. That in some small way, a betrayal like this could be understood, given a hint of reason. But he had not, and there was not. Melassania was silent. He did not look at her, but he felt her gaze all the same. No matter what he chose, somebody lost everything. He squeezed his eyes shut and took a long, slow breath. For a moment, Garrus went very still.

 

“No.” He forced his voice to be calm. “I won’t do it.” His eyes opened to see the small measure of compassion drain from Dantius’ face.

 

“You’re making a mistake.” She said flatly.

 

“The only mistake was coming here in the first place.” Garrus listened to the strength in his own voice. “But if you think you can buy me with my own mother’s death bed, then you can go fuck yourself.”

 

Dispassion gave way to cold fury in the asari’s expression. “For what it’s worth, I offered you this deal in good faith. I wanted you to do this willingly.”

 

“Sorry to disappoint you.” He matched her venom.

 

“No.” Melassania’s lip curled. “Not yet you’re not.” For a moment Garrus thought the matriarch might crush him with biotics then and there, but instead a new, sinister joy grew on her face. “You wanted to know where I learned all of this? What source, or sources, I’ve had access to? Well, one of them is right here in this room. Tied to a chair, wallowing in his blissful ignorance. Playing the stalwart prisoner, who would never break.”

 

A cold shiver crawled up inside Garrus. For the first time since he had woken in this foreboding cell, true fear gripped him. He told himself it was not possible. No, this was a tactic. A bluff designed to unnerve him. There were no bruises, no scars. He did not feel the telltale ache of torture, even the kind expertly performed so that any physical reminder faded into nothing. His senses were sharp and his mind clear, unaffected by the trace presence of drugs. He remembered the signs and signals, what remained in a turian brain after exposure to truth serums. There was none of it here. Anger grew within his fear but could not break free of it.

 

“You’re lying.” He snarled.

 

“I’m afraid not.” Melassania’s eyes gleamed with the certainty of truth. “You’re a very informed turian, Garrus. Rising through C-Sec’s ranks, I’m sure you’ve seen a great many things.” She shook her head. “But there are things you haven’t seen. Things hidden away by your betters. Things like Morinth.”

 

“What are you talking about?” He asked, dread deepening.

 

“Did you think Samara spent the past four hundred years chasing a common criminal? No, Morinth is something far more valuable. She’s an Ardat Yakshi.” The name stirred something in the matriarch, as though it held some esoteric, religious meaning. “She has been joining with you, Garrus. For the past two days now. Peering into that guilt-ridden mind. Digging out all your secrets while you slept. You didn’t feel a thing of course. I’m told it’s actually quite pleasant.”

 

Another wave of sickness washed over Garrus. He felt his brain began to itch, as if reacting to the bite of an insect. Two days… he could not place them. No measure of time seemed to exist between the floor of Harkin’s foundry and now. The itching worsened. An intolerable need to be clean of whatever Morinth had done to him flared up inside the turian. Melassania knew about the Collectors, she knew about the mission. Spirits, she even knew about Shepard, and his mother. What else did she know? The deeper the recesses of his mind he ventured, the more frightening it seemed. Indescribable violation.

 

“Unfortunately, what’s coming now won’t be so painless…” Dantius’ voice dragged him back to his cell. “Ardat Yakshi possess… let’s call it a power of suggestion. No matter how stubborn you turn out to be, Garrus, your mind is just meat. And Morinth? She can make it dance to her tune. It’s a slow process, takes days for most victims. And it is very painful. Your brain’s going to fight it every step of the way. Of course, after it’s done, you won’t even notice the difference.” She stooped down to his eyeline, relishing the horror that she spun before him. “And when the time comes, all you’ll be able to do is watch it happen.”

 

Garrus wrenched himself forward, pushing his body to its limit in some vain attempt to strike the monster before him. But Melassania barely retreated an inch, snorting her derision at the pathetic creature before her. An ugly déjà vu overcame him as the door opened again, and Morinth stepped back through. A twisted midnight parody of Melassania’s entrance. She wore Samara’s face like a mask, predatory glee radiating from the killer’s eyes within. She was graceful and reverent before the matriarch, bowing before her once more. Like a rabid war beast braying at the end of its master’s chain.

 

“Don’t push him too far this session, understand?” Melassania snapped, before casting her baleful gaze upon him one last time. “I want to give our guest some time to think about his decision, while his mind is still his.”

 

“It’ll be my pleasure.” Morinth practically slavered the words. With that, the matriarch straightened and twitched her tunic, returning to the perfect figure the world knew. She paused in the doorway, never quite looking back.

 

“Remember, Garrus. You chose this.” Were the last words she’d ever say to him. By the time the cell door closed, Morinth’s powerful biotics had already ensnared him. A net of blue light constricted tighter and tighter, flattening him back against the chair. Traces of blood still clung to the asari’s lips. A purposeful reminder of a debt she owed him.

 

“Time for you to earn your keep, hero.” Morinth gripped his throat, turning his head to face her. She held him there, her eyes slowly swallowed into twin abysses. Soon her nose pressed to his, her presence inescapable.

 

“Look into my eyes.”

 

 
