Chapter 7: The Angel's Nest: Part Two

Zaeed led the others out of the club, heading over toward the sky-car lot. With a friendly swagger, he smooth talked his way past another Blue Suns trooper there, talking up Shepard’s squad before finally getting another consternated affirmative. The five humans piled into an available shuttle, with Kasumi squeezing in between Jacob and Miranda. Her sudden reappearance startled the old mercenary, his hoarse British accent filling the small vehicle’s cabin with profanity. Summoning her supernatural charm, the master thief quickly ingratiated herself to the man; that squint of distrust leaving his one good eye.

 

Aria’s intel had been correct, after only a few minutes of flying the squad caught sight of the gangs’ staging area. A number of soldiers were already gathered near the landing pad, different species wearing different colours. Batarians and turians dressed in the same Blue Suns armour, while a group of vorcha and a single krogan were all wearing crimson. The Blood Pack, Shepard figured. Only a couple mercs in yellow were hanging around, a salarian and an asari. But the two Eclipse troopers made up for it with a small crowd of LOKI robots. It was actually a little strange to see the machines again, without them firing at her. The sky-car settled on the pad, and as the squad exited one of the Blue Suns mercs came over to greet them.

 

“Salkie!” Zaeed put on the charm. “Tarak still got you on greeting duty?” Salkie shrugged.

 

“I’ll take it over cannon fodder. No offense.” He turned to Zaeed’s new friends. “You’re people know what they’re up against?”

 

“Sure they do.” The scarred merc lied. “Cross an exposed bridge, don’t get their heads blown off, and collect the credits afterwards.” He ignored the raised eyebrows behind him.

 

“Right…” Salkie nodded, clearly noticing. “Well now that you’re here, you should get them up to the third barricade. Tarak’s getting antsy.”

 

“You read my mind.” Zaeed drawled back. “Gimme a minute with the guys.” Salkie nodded before heading back to his post.

 

“Questions, comments?” Zaeed asked, looking from one person to the next.

 

“What kind of hardware are we looking at for the mercs?” Shepard asked.

 

“Eclipse brought a couple dozen of the little bots with them. Got a big one out back, in case they don’t cut it. Blood Pack… well they just brought a lotta vorcha. Blue Suns are mostly running things, so nothing too big numbers wise. But Tarak’s got a gunship with him. A mantis.”

 

“Great.” Miranda sighed, adjusting one of her gauntlets.

 

“Don’t be so dramatic.” Kasumi piped up. “I’ll take a look at the toys, see what I can do.”

 

“Sounds like a plan.” Shepard gave her a smile. “After you’re done, I need you back here. Chances are we’ll need a quick getaway.”

 

“I’ll find something flashy.” She winked, before vanishing.

 

The four-man squad made their way towards the first barricade. It had been hard to see coming in, but the whole area used to be a large boulevard. Even all the way back where they were, there was a clear view of the objective. Peeking just over the barricade was the target building. A two-story apartment turned into a compound. Sure enough the far away structure was separated from the boulevard by a very open bridge. Aside from some guardrails and light poles, it was nothing but open air from one side to the other. Disturbingly, the main feature of the bridge was the number of bodies littered across it.

 

Some of them bore the armour of the merc gangs, but most were the ugly hand-me-downs of the freelancers roped into the operation. Whoever was waiting for them on the other side, he was certainly dangerous. Heading into the Eclipse base, more of an appropriated broom closet of an apartment, Shepard’s team enjoyed a thorough mean mugging from the small group inside. One of them, a salarian, was too busy barking orders at the others to pay attention. Taking advantage of the distraction, Miranda surreptitiously slipped one of their data-pads into a pouch on her armour.

 

Coming out to the second barricade, the squad was greeted by the smell of vorcha. Two of the grey-skinned, spiny creatures were perched up on the wall, peeking their heads over for a look at the target. Dressed mostly in rags, they clutched at their second-hand rifles with an unprofessional skittishness that probably got most of them killed through friendly fire. As they passed the creatures, one of them gargled out a warning to his buddy. Pausing to heed the warning, the crack of a rifle bullet whizzed by, followed by the wet pop of the alien’s head. The vorcha tumbled off the barricade, a pool of blood oozing from its neck stump.

 

None of the squad flinched, unlike the other vorcha, who began spraying wildly at the compound. Shepard knew they were safely below the enemy’s sight line, but the shot was still impressive. Despite exposing himself for too long, the alien had only been visible for a second. A perfect shot at this range, this vigilante had to be a hell of a sniper. She unconsciously touched her breather helmet, making sure it was secure. Another of the gangs had taken up residence in an apartment connecting the second and third barricade. The unpleasant smell of vorcha outside became an unbearable stench in the closed room. There were nearly a dozen, sitting wherever they could in the cramped space. The Blood Pack’s apparent leader dominated an entire corner. A massive krogan, dressed in heavy armour. He didn’t say anything, but his beady eyes watched the newcomers closely as they passed him.

 

Grateful to be out in the marginally cleaner air, Zaeed signalled the others to follow him. Sticking to the wall of the boulevard, another shot rang out from the compound. One of the freelancers up on the third barricade dropped dead. The other recruits all ducked lower behind cover, most of them visibly shaking. The squad made their way through a side door, getting a quick glimpse of the Blue Suns gunship sitting across from them in a sky-car bay. It was a large, intimidating thing, utterly bristling with firepower; Shepard grimaced at the thought of facing off against it with small arms. As they headed toward the Blue Suns base, the sound of shouting was already carrying through the closed door. Zaeed took the lead, waltzing up ahead to greet Tarak, a mountain of a batarian and the obvious leader of the whole operation.

 

“Where the hell have you been?” Tarak yelled, throwing up his hands. “I’ve been making do with station-scum since you left! Who are these idiots?”

 

“They’re my backup.” Zaeed answered curtly. “What crawled up your arse?”

 

“That fucking turian has been killing my men all day!” Tarak answered, on edge. “Nearly shot down my gunship, as if all this shit wasn’t bad enough.”

 

“Don’t worry mate, we’ll get him.” Zaeed promised, winking his blind eye. The batarian turned his gaze to Shepard, eyeing the helmeted soldier.

 

“You know what the plan is?” He demanded.

 

“Run across the bridge, don’t get shot.” Shepard answered. Tarak shook his head.

 

“Good enough. Get out of here.”

 

Shepard led the others back outside the door, waiting around until Zaeed finally joined them. The older man paused, noticing the commander’s look of distrust.

 

“You seem pretty friendly with Tarak.” Shepard noted.

 

“I was.” The merc agreed. “Until a couple hours ago.”

 

“Is it that easy to get you to turn on your allies?” Shepard asked, tension bubbling up between them.

 

“For the amount of credits your Cerberus friends are paying? Sure.” Zaeed returned the woman’s nasty look. “Besides, Tarak’s a prick. Hard to stay friends with a fucking slaver.” The revelation sent a strangling flex through Shepard’s fist.

 

“Never mind then.” She relented, looking back at the door with hate in her eyes. Zaeed grinned.

 

“That’s more like it.”

 

By the time the squad had returned to the boulevard, the Blue Suns had given the signal. They quickly fell in with the small army of freelancers as they charged along the bridge. The booming reports of a sniper rifle echoed through the nearby buildings. One after another, the untrained men fell dead. Those who were left stood out in the open, firing hundreds of rounds from their weapons into the compound. Tracers flashed across the bridge, biting into the balcony and interior of the repurposed apartment. Barely visible behind a reinforced perch, the sniper took his time. Shepard’s squad grabbed whatever cover they could find, waiting for the crack of the long rifle before moving up. Judging from the way it opened up the freelancer’s helmets, she figured it had to be a single shot model: Something high calibre, which meant no room for error. Luckily, it also meant there was about a second’s break between shots.

 

Miranda and Jacob moved up along with her, while Zaeed was a step or two behind. Despite his age, the man kept pace. Once or twice the rifle would turn on them, and Shepard felt a rush of adrenaline when the small cover she was behind lost a thumb-sized chunk. One of the last freelancers fired a grenade launcher at the balcony, immediately attracting the sniper’s attention. Using the moment, the squad rushed the last few feet, making it safely inside. To her surprise, Shepard found a second team of mercs inside. They must have already infiltrated. They were all Blue Suns, and didn’t look happy to see her squad. Clearly survivors weren’t part of the plan.

 

A gun battle exploded in the lobby, with the five Suns grabbing cover by the stairwell. Jacob and Zaeed took up a firing position, pinning down the three men on the stairs. Miranda caught one of them on the upstairs mezzanine, pulling the merc over the edge with a biotic field. His body bent in half on impact. Taking a deep breath, Shepard focused her mind. She could feel the biotic energy crackling underneath her suit, her ears tingling as she looked for a target. Flexing her body, the commander flashed across the small battlefield, crashing into one of the troops on the far side.

 

Both Shepard and the mercs were surprised by her sudden appearance, but she reacted first. Dropping her rifle, the commander drew her shotgun, letting off three semi-auto blasts, one for each enemy. The fourth Sun emerged from cover at the top of the stairs, stepping closer with a shotgun of his own. Shepard acquired the target a second too late, and a loud shot rang out. The merc dropped dead, the commander following the bullet’s vapour trail toward the second floor. The turian sniper waved at her, before heading back to his post. A moment later the others were back at Shepard’s side, before they headed in to greet the vigilante.

 

“Nice shot.” Shepard said as she entered the upper floor.

 

“Don’t mention…” The turian’s reply trailed off. He turned, giving the commander a better look at his face. Seeing those familiar eyes looking back at her, Shepard opened her helmet’s visor, feeling the luckiest she had in a long time. She watched her friend’s brow-plates rise, mandibles flaring in disbelief.

 

“Shepard… You’re alive?” Garrus could barely find the words, his voice trembling.

 

“It’s a long story. After we get you outta here, I’ll tell you all about it.” Shepard gave her friend a smile.

 

“I can’t wait.” Garrus said, intrigued. “How’d you find me?”

 

“I heard about a do-gooder here on Omega, making life hell for the gangs. A turian deadeye with a stick up his ass, I figured who else could it be?” Shepard’s assessment got a rumbling chuckle.

 

“Just keeping my skills sharp.” Garrus mused. “A little target practice.”

 

“You okay?” Shepard asked, her tone more serious. The turian’s eyes fell from hers.

 

“I’ve been better.” Shaking it off, Garrus picked up the rifle and turned back to Shepard. “But it sure is good to see a friendly face. Killing mercs is hard work… especially on my own.”

 

Shepard could hear the weariness in her old friend’s voice. While still alert, she noticed the turian’s eyes were dialated. He’d stimmed up at least once already, probably from fighting all damn day. Despite the confident tone in Garrus’ voice, the commander was thankful she’d found him when she did.

 

“Those days are over.” She put a hand on Garrus’ shoulder. Rejuvenated, the turian gave her a smile.

 

“You got a plan, Shepard?”

 

“I’ve got a sky-car waiting to pick us up. But I don’t think we can get it in here without being noticed.”

 

“You’re right. The only way in is through the boulevard, past the mercs. For all the good this bridge has done me, crossing it’ll just get us killed.” Garrus looked around the apartment, weighing his options. “Maybe it’s best if we stay put for now.”

 

“They know where we are. They’ll take us out eventually.” Miranda piped up, getting the turian’s attention. He noticed her Cerberus armour immediately, but tactfully refrained from commenting on it.

 

“It’s not all that bad.” He countered. “This position’s kept me safe so far, and with the four of you… I suggest, we make our stand here, thin out their numbers a little, and call in your friend when the coast is clear.” Garrus nodded to himself, looking to his friend. “It’s not a perfect plan… but it’s a plan.”

 

“I didn’t like sneaking anyway.” Shepard grinned.

 

“Glad to see you haven’t changed.” Garrus sniggered, looking down his scope. “Alright, looks like Eclipse are coming over the wall. I’ll stay here; I’m the better shot anyway.” He jabbed. “You… you can do what you do best.” The human unfolded her rifle, sighting down a target.

 

“Just like old times, Shepard. Let’s give these bastards everything we’ve got!”

 

Miranda, Jacob and Zaeed quickly joined them in cover, the five of them setting up a firing line along the balcony. The battle started with the boom of Garrus’ rifle, tearing the metal head of a LOKI robot clear from its body. Soon the chattering bursts of assault rifle fire joined in, with Zaeed and Shepard dropping two more of the bots each. Though preferring close range, Jacob was landing hit after hit with his heavy pistol, taking off arms and legs and reducing the machines to crawling wrecks. Soon squads of flesh and blood mercs came over the wall. None of them made it even halfway across the bridge. It was clear Archangel’s new friends were starting to aggravate the yellow-painted assholes when their colourful salarian boss stuck his head out from cover. He worked at his Omni-tool, painfully just out of reach. Shepard reloaded her rifle’s thermal clips in time to see a floating crane carry out a massive YMIR robot.

 

“Kasumi!” She called out over her radio. “You manage to scrap the heavy bot?”

 

“Even better.” Her voice came through with an obvious smile.

 

No sooner had the tank-sized machine unfolded into terrifying life, then it’s proximity warning sensors began targeting the remaining Eclipse platoon. Backed up by sniper fire from the compound, the YMIR tore the mercs apart. The occasional explosion from the robot’s rocket launcher interrupted the staccato blasts of heavy machine gun fire. However the troopers had rockets of their own. Taking up firing positions, they began unloading on the YMIR. Kinetic barriers and armour built for frontline combat made the monstrous thing tough to take down, but a constant barrage of heavy weapons was beginning to take its toll. After wiping out the brunt of the Eclipse, the metal guardian came crashing down to the ground, before its self-destruct killed the remaining troops. The salarian commander looked on in shock and rage for just a moment too long, before a well-placed shot splattered the wall behind him with green blood and brain matter.

 

“Hock your shit now, Jaroth.” Garrus growled, before leaning back from his firing position. His victory was cut short by an explosion, shaking the building.

 

“What the hell was that?” Jacob asked, looking around.

 

“Damn it.” Garrus hissed, checking his Omni-tool. “They’re in the tunnels.” Closing his eyes, the turian let out a snort. “Well they had to use their brains eventually.”

 

“Alright, I’ll go secure the tunnels.” Shepard suggested. “Jacob, Zaeed, stay with Garrus. Keep the bridge covered.” The two men gave an affirmative nod. “Miranda, you’re with me.”

 

“You sure? Who knows what you’ll find down there.” Garrus protested, worried.

 

“We’ll be fine.” Shepard assured him, looking to Miranda. She gave Shepard a look, but nodded.

 

Double-timing their way down under the apartment, the two biotics emerged into a large room. They were three entrances, left, right and centre. To their shock, hundreds of vorha were already surging up the main tunnel. Focusing her breathing again, Shepard flexed her body. Crossing the room in a flash, she barrelled into the first of the squawking creatures as they entered. She cut down the second with her rifle, before the third was sent flying back by a biotic push. Miranda had already caught up, throwing herself into the air with her powers before sprinting the remaining distance. Finding the door controls, she activated the emergency shutters, leaving Shepard to cover her. Remembering Miranda’s criticism, Shepard gripped the rifle steadily, lining up shot after shot and spraying down the first two lines of attackers. After only a few seconds, the shutter slammed down.

 

“We should split up.” Miranda suggested. “I’ll take the right tunnel, you take the left.”

 

“You sure?” Shepard asked. Miranda nodded.

 

“I’d rather not be dealing with hundreds of these things because we took our time.” She paused for a second, looking Shepard over. “You need me with you?”

 

“No.” Shepard shook her head, burying her annoyance. “It’s a good idea. Meet you back here?”

 

“Got it.”

 

Shepard made a break for her tunnel, already the howls of dying vorcha were echoing from Miranda’s. Using the cramped, L-shaped hallway to her advantage, she bottlenecked the creatures. With their ability to overwhelm and flank the enemy nullified, the commander focused her biotics on a barrier. Pulling her shotgun, she waded into the snarling horde. Bullets from their inaccurate rifle fire plinked harmlessly against the barrier, her shotgun tearing the vorcha to pieces at such close range. Utterly fearless, they attempted to rush her, but the semi-auto, close quarters weapon was built specifically to deal with threats like them.

 

Shepard got stuck in, painting the walls with blood and gore as she slowly advanced. When her shotgun clicked instead of barked, one of the creatures grabbed at the barrel. She reacted in an instant, a biotic punch caving in the alien’s chest. She slapped the door controls, slinging the shotgun and spraying the approaching vorcha with her rifle. Lightly built and unshielded, the swarming aliens started piling up a few feet in front of her, before disappearing behind her shutter. Stepping back over a couple dozen bodies, she opened the door to the main room only to find Miranda on the other side, about to come looking for her. Shepard cocked an eyebrow at her.

 

“Just wanted to make sure.” She said, her insinuation prickling Shepard.

 

“Uh-huh.” Shepard rolled her eyes.

 

“Shepard, I need you back up here! They’re coming in through the door!” Garrus chimed in. The two of them set off again.

 

By the time they reached the compound, a handful of dead vorcha already littered the lower floor. As far as the two humans could tell, the attack had been repelled. Then the sounds of fighting erupted upstairs. Shepard and Miranda raced back into the upstairs room to find their allies engaging two massive krogan. One of them was the leader from before, decked out in heavy armour. Zaeed and Jacob had the other monster occupied, with the old man holding onto the hump, his knife swinging to catch the head plate. Garrus was bailed up near his perch, desperately fighting back the Blood Pack leader. Seeing her friend in trouble, Shepard charged.

 

She emptied an entire heat cycle of rounds from her shotgun into the krogan, the last shot biting through armour and getting its attention. The commander had no time to react before she was scooped up and tackled to the ground. Landing a biotic punch across the krogan’s face, the reptilian gangster flashed a grin, readying his own. Before the strike could land, the bulky alien was flung across the room, crashing down near the inner balcony. Miranda was already standing over Shepard, offering a hand up. On her feet again, Shepard took the opportunity and built up another charge. It was definitely getting harder, but she pushed through it. Taking a deep breath, she flexed and shot forward.

 

The impact knocked the krogan off balance, sending both of them over the railing. Unsurprisingly, the massive reptile left a crater in the floor where he landed. Another warp field from above struck him, before Shepard attacked again. Drawing her pistol, the commander emptied the heat sink into his face. The monster krogan surged forward, teeth and flesh torn away by bullets. Feeling the beast’s paw around her throat, Shepard was lifted off the ground. The mangled face of the krogan snarled before suddenly exploding. Garrus leaned against the railing, cycling his rifle and breathing hard.

 

“Regenerate… from that… you bastard!” He jeered.

 

“You gonna count that as my kill?” Shepard asked, throwing her hands up. “I did most of the work.”

 

“Hah! Not on your-”

 

 

 

The whole world froze.

 

 

 

Shepard could only watch, helpless as her friend disappeared inside a ball of fire. All she could hear was her own laboured breathing, rhythmically flowing in and out of pained lungs. Nothing seemed real, her feet carrying her up the stairs and around the corner, through the door and into a scene of carnage. The smouldering hole in the wall was bathed in the bright spotlight of Tarak’s gunship. Beds and chairs had been thrown against the far wall, or shattered into shrapnel. Huddled within the wreckage, she could see a woman with dark hair. Miranda had managed to pull Jacob and Zaeed close enough to protect them, her barrier still blazing. The act of bravery became invisible, Shepard’s eyes on the body lying just outside its reach. Tears began to mix with the sweat on her face, the pounding of her heart was deafening. After all this time, everything they’d been through. Seeing Garrus laying in a pool of blood, it broke something.

 

Tarak’s voice croaked over the gunship’s loudspeaker. Words the woman couldn’t process: Gloating, or threats maybe? It didn’t matter. Shepard barely noticed Miranda’s barrier disappear, or Jacob and Zaeed rushing over to cover. She just followed the voice. Dropping her gun, she looked out at the heavily armed aircraft, still buzzing nearby. In a blink, she was there. The gunship rocked wildly from the impact, spraying its chain gun. Pressed up against the cockpit, Shepard could see the batarian, just inches away. There wasn’t any pain in her hand as she smashed it against the glass; there wasn’t any sound when the ballistic material shattered under the force of her biotic punch. All she could see; was the look in Tarak’s eyes. Victory turned to horror, to pleading.

 

Before he could utter a single word, the commander’s fist came down, crushing the alien’s skull. Barely more than a lower jaw was left, the body twitching as it lost control of the vehicle. Shepard was thrown from the crashing gunship. By the time she realised what had happened, she was plucked from the air by a biotic field. Floating back towards the apartment, Shepard could make out Miranda, carefully reeling Shepard back toward her. Grabbing Miranda’s hand, she was pulled back to safety, and fear poured in again. Rushing to Garrus’ side, she could see the horrific gashes along the turian’s face and neck, his armour blackened and melted. Jacob and Zaeed had covered the wounds in medi-gel, but it did little to calm the commander.

 

“Kasumi’s on her way.” Miranda’s voice came from behind. “We don’t have much time.”

 

By the time they reached the Normandy, Karin Chakwas had already prepped the med-bay for surgery. Shepard wanted to follow her friend, but the doctor put a hand on Shepard’s chest. She respected the woman like a mother, obeying her request without question. She looked on for a moment longer before the windows clouded. The smell of copper was thick in her nostrils. She had to get away from here.

 

She marched across the crew deck, tracking flecks of blue as she headed for the elevator. When the doors opened to deck one, she stumbled into the captain’s cabin. Her heart was pounding again, the sound overpowering everything around her. Shepard looked down at her hands; there was so much blood. Her friend was downstairs, dying. And it was her fault. She hated this feeling, being completely helpless. There was a maelstrom inside her, roaring and thrashing under her skin, wanting desperately to burst free. Feeling sick to her stomach, Shepard nearly crashed into the nearby wall. Feeling the hard surface against her, the urge to let this horrible feeling out was just too much to ignore. She slammed one fist into the metal, then the other. Over and over she punched as hard as she could. Her body started trembling, crackling blue as her biotics flared up violently. The wet splatting of her bloodstained knuckles gave way to the creaking of metal, bending and deforming under the sheer force of her power-enhanced strikes. The blows were so powerful she left patches of her friend’s blood on the wall.

 

Soon enough, her barriers failed, the protective aura giving way. Skin began to split under the force, mixing human crimson with turian blue. By the time her strength failed her, Shepard could barely breathe, her body trembling. Her legs gave out, and the woman slumped down to the floor. All the rage and hate had been burned away. The venom she felt about her own failure iced over. Only the sight of Garrus; crumpled on that apartment floor and barely breathing, lingered in her mind. Shepard buried her head in her hands. In the seclusion of the commander’s own private quarters, Jane cried. She shivered and shook and bawled, coming undone.

 

“…If you fall apart out in the field, people are going to die…”

 

Miranda’s words repeated in her mind. She’d been right; Instead of paying attention to her surroundings, instead of being the soldier Commander Shepard was supposed to be, Shepard was making fucking jokes. If she’d gotten up there sooner, she could’ve protected Garrus with a barrier of her own. If she’d said nothing, her friend would’ve heard the gunship coming. Shepard tried not to think about it, but the assessment forced its way in. They’d seen dozens of missions together during the hunt for Saren, survived impossible odds. She never had to look further than her right shoulder, and Garrus had been there.

 

But now, her best friend was dying, all because she’d… come out wrong.

 

Exhausted and completely drained, Shepard’s heart began to slow. Her breathing clamed, and the tears stopped altogether. For a long time she just sat there, unable to do anything. She could feel hours passing, time she should’ve spent preparing for the next mission, or checking up on her teammates. But she couldn’t. She knew it was wrong, but after all of this she didn’t care anymore. The commander barely looked up from where she’d collapsed, but she felt the time slipping by. EDI had chimed in exactly once; in a rage she ordered her volume muted for the room.

 

Eventually she grew so disgusted with the stench of her bloodstained hard-suit, that she stripped and got in the shower. Feeling water streak over her breasts and bruised skin helped a little, the sensation was enough to distract from the unbearable truth waiting downstairs. Lingering longer than she should of, Shepard towled off and changed into a fresh uniform. She sat on her bed, going over the scenario in her mind. She prepared herself for what she’d see; accept that the failure had been hers. After that… she didn’t know what she’d do.

 

The mental preparation was broken by a completely unexpected sound: Someone knocking, like physically knocking, on the door. Shepard summoned up every ounce of strength she had, ready to grit her teeth through whatever Miranda or Karin had to say. She strode over to the door, tapping the control. It opened to the one thing she’d never imagined seeing.

 

“Hey.” Garrus said shakily, bracing himself against the doorway. Shepard didn’t think; she just put her arms around him. Nearly bowling the turian over, she came to her senses the moment a hiss of pain came from above.

 

“Jesus, I’m sorry.” Shepard tried to keep calm. “I…” She ran her hand across her eyes, working through the words. “I wasn’t sure if we got you here in time… I thought that…” Garrus put a hand on her shoulder.

 

“Now we’re even.” The turian chuckled. Even through tears, Shepard grinned like a fool.

 

“Yeah… okay.” She nodded, regaining her composure.

 

With an arm around Garrus, Shepard helped him into the cabin. The seating of her L-shaped couch was too small for the turian to be comfortable, so instead she took him to the bed. Garrus sat, and Shepard leaned against the nearby bench. At their respective heights, the arrangement left them at eye-level.

 

“So…” Garrus spoke up, getting Shepard’s attention.

 

“So… what?” Shepard asked, perplexed.

 

“How do you like my new look?” The turian asked, gesturing to the mess of gauze and bandages on the right side of his face. “Think my modelling career is over?”

 

“Over?” The commander did her best to feign dryness. “Garrus, you were always ugly. Slap some facepaint on there and nobody will even notice.”

 

“Look at miss confident.” Garrus retorted. “All it took was an unfair advantage. Ah… it’s probably for the best anyway. Everyone was always ignoring you and hitting on me. Time for you to get a fair shot at it.”

 

Shepard felt a giggle escape her, the smile lingering afterward. She watched the triumphant glint in Garrus’ eyes. The turian took the opportunity to admire the cabin, but stopped when he saw the bloodstained dents on the wall. Shepard’s smile vanished in an instant.

 

“You… okay?” Garrus asked gently. Shepard’s face tightened, eyes on the floor between them.

 

“Not really.” She admitted. She took a deep breath, trying to force levity. “I’m kind of a… fucking mess.” The turian eyed his friend closely, weighing up his words. Unable to muster any more tact, he just asked the question.

 

“What happened?” His plated face had trouble showing it, but Garrus regretted the question as soon as he asked it. He watched Shepard walk over to the desk on the upper tier, collecting a data-pad. Soon the tablet was in his clawed hands, a folder of images selected.

 

“You won’t believe me if I tell you. The photos should explain well enough, but… I can’t look at them.”

 

Turning her attention away from the data-pad, Shepard waited patiently for her friend to get his fill of revelations. Instead she looked over at the wall, where she’d vomited up her rage. Another fine example of self control, if only Anderson could see her now. After a couple of minutes, Garrus looked up from the small screen, his brows raised and mandibles wide.

 

“Spirits… they brought you back from this?” Shepard nodded weakly.

 

“That’s not even the best part. According to the project leads, I’m not even… me anymore.”

 

“What do you mean?"

 

“I don’t know. Something about aberrant neural patterns, not lining up with the old Shepard’s thoughts. Shit, I barely understand the dumbed-down version.” She gave Garrus a shrug. “They broke me, and now I have to make do like this.”

 

She could feel the cold thoughts slithering back inside again, that horrible sense of dread that came with seeing yourself lifeless on a slab. But before the chill could set in, the turian struggled to his feet.

 

“So what?” Garrus said loudly, commanding his friend’s attention. “You got hurt. That’s what happened. You got hurt, and those Cerberus assholes patched you up. All this aberrant neural pattern stuff? It’s crap. Just jargon to pretty-up a science report.” He spoke with certainty, gripping Shepard’s shoulder.

 

“I know it’s you. Wanna know how?”

 

“How?” The commander played along.

 

“Because you’re still a terrible shot. And ugly to boot.” Garrus gestured around the room. “You’re on a Cerberus ship, working with a bunch of terrorists. Of course you’re feeling weird.”

 

“The crew don’t actually seem that bad.” Shepard protested, smiling again.

 

“Really?” Garrus squinted at her, incredulous. “Well. I might have to stick around anyway, just to be sure.”

 

Dropping the act, he stood up straight. Shepard saw that look of respect in her friend’s eyes, the look he had two years ago.

 

“If you’ll have me, of course.”
