There Must be Options

. . .

Quarian and Human Relations

Note: This article is written assuming female quarian and female human. For the male quarian and female human version, navigate HERE.

Table of Contents

- Introduction

- Dangers and Precautions

- Oral Sex

- Copulation

- Conclusion

Introduction

Between the debilitating immune systems shared by all known quarians, and the short period of time humans have been part of the galactic community, relations between quarians and humans are among the least documented interspecies romances.

There are inherit biological obstacles to physical relations between the two species, the primary being the poor state of quarian immune systems, which may result in major illness or even death. Another major factor is the opposite amino-acid chirality of quarians (dextro) and humans (levo), though not to the extent of the quarian immune system handicap.

However, despite these obstacles, relationships between the two species are not only possible, but can be just as emotionally healthy as those of even their own races. There are major similarities between quarians and humans that allow for significant compatibility. Both species share similar physical structure, and sexual dimorphism between both their genders is nearly identical. Another factor is their fundamental biology; both species can be classified as placental mammals, share comparable lifespans, and neither race has some of the more exotic biology of other species, such as the natural biotic abilities of the asari or the redundant systems of the krogan.

Dangers and Precautions

As briefly mentioned in the previous section, the state of quarian immune systems renders sexual intimacy dangerous to the quarian. Even if proper precautions are taken, some degree of illness is likely and even death is a possibility. The two biggest factors that determine the severity of the quarian's reaction are the environment of the sexual activity and the adaptability of the quarian's personal immune system.

Only two types of environments should be considered for sexual activity: a sterilized clean-room, which is the most optimal, or a controlled-air environment, such as the interior of a space-faring vessel. A clean room is optimal as it effectively eliminates the variable of the environment. A controlled-air environment can also be considered due to the greatly reduced amount of bacteria and pathogens. The life-support systems of space-faring vessels are perpetually filtering and cleaning the air, thus these are suitable controlled-air environments. A sealed personal environment with comparable air-filtering equipment can also be used. Any kind of public area or non-controlled environment should be avoided, due to the probability of high amounts of microbial matter from indeterminable sources.

As significant a factor as the environment is, the personal immune system of the quarian is the single biggest factor. Unfortunately, it is also an unpredictable factor as it is impossible to predict its reaction without extensive and impractical prior lab tests. Antibiotics should be used to combat the foreign matter that gets introduced into the quarian's body. With a human partner, antibiotics that are specifically designed to combat levo amino-acid chirality bacteria are recommended. All Class Levo-HS antibiotics are effective, and specifically recommended ones are: Hemotaxim, Seropenem, and Democycline-2.

Allergy medicine should also be considered. Since any viruses or bacteria present within the human partner are incapable of actually infecting another species of opposite amino-acid chirality, the biggest threat to the quarian is allergic reaction. Antibiotics help eliminate the foreign pathogens, thus reducing the allergic reaction duration and intensity. Since the immune system of the quarian is needlessly overreacting to foreign matter that their body is technically immune to, allergy medication can be used to lessen the reaction. While commonly used to treat allergies, steroids are not recommended as they work by weakening the immune system, and may cause undesirable side-effects. Certain herbal supplements can be used to safely temporarily pacify the immune system.

Note: Due to allergy medicine's tendency to work against the immune system, a quarian healthcare professional should be consulted to determine which supplements are most suitable, or if steroid-based allergy medication can be considered.

Oral Sex

To both quarians and (to a greater extent) humans, use of the mouth to stimulate the partner's genitalia is a relatively common practice. However, it is generally not recommended for interspecies intimacy between both races for health reasons, though with proper precautions it can be safe, to an extent.

Oral sex performed on the female, known as cunnilingus, can be dangerous to both partners. The high bacterial content of the mouth may cause increased allergic reaction to the quarian. Use of antiseptic mouth rinse prior to performing cunnilingus is strongly recommended. Consumption of the vaginal lubrication produced by the quarian female during sexual arousal may cause an allergic reaction to the human.

Unlike cunnilingus, oral sex performed on the male, known as fellatio, is only dangerous to the quarian partner, as quarian saliva poses little to no danger to a healthy human unless ingested. While all fluids excreted by the human penis are effectively sterile (unless the human has a urinary tract infection), ingestion of seminal fluid may cause stomach cramps and allergic reactions to the quarian. Human semen contains fructose, which is safe for quarian consumption, but the levo-protein content of the spermatozoa is not compatible with the quarian digestive system.

Copulation

As both quarians and humans share similar body structures, most sexual positions used by both species are compatible with each other. The most significant structural difference that's relevant to copulation is the differing lower legs of both species, which may cause some minor incompatibility. The lower leg of a human is less curved, so when standing on the knees weight is distributed among the tibia and fibula shin bones, whereas on a quarian the weight is concentrated almost entirely on the kneecaps.

These are some of the most common positions, but there are numerous others, all with multiple variations, so feel free to experiment with your partner to find what's most enjoyable and comfortable for both.

-The basic sex position for both races involves the male on top, penetrating forward. Known as the 'missionary position' among humans, this position is completely compatible with the physiology of both species, and the differing lower leg structure is not a factor.

-Penetration from behind, in which is the female supports her torso horizontally by standing on her hands and knees, is another common position. However, the lower leg structure of quarians causes this position to put extra pressure on the knees, so a soft surface is recommended to avoid discomfort.

-The receiver on top position is a position in which the male is on his back while the female is on top, perpendicular to the male's body. Like penetrating from behind, this position also puts weight on the female knees, so a soft surface is again recommended.

During copulation, sexual protection is not necessary. Due to their differing biology, quarians and humans are immune to sexually transmitted diseases from either species. Pregnancy is also biologically impossible. Although ingestion of human seminal fluid is dangerous for a quarian, ejaculation within the vagina is reasonably safe. Since the body does not attempt to digest or extract nutrition from the seminal fluid as it would from ingestion, it goes largely ignored within the quarian's body. The spermatozoa pose no threat, and are eventually killed by the quarian's immune system (or die off on their own). Anything that remains of the seminal fluid ends up being flushed with bodily waste. Seminal fluid also contains no bacteria, unless the human has a urinary tract infection.

Humans are generally a larger species than quarians. On average, humans are both taller and of a broader frame. As a result of the difference in size, in some extreme cases a female quarian may experience discomfort during intercourse from the male's—

Tali turned off her omni-tool as the door to the room slid open and Shepard stepped inside, interrupting her reading.

It didn't matter; she had read the article, and others like it, numerous times already since she started her research just a few weeks ago. In addition to reading the very limited number of articles on the subject of quarian and human relations available, she had also anonymously contacted some doctors from the Migrant Fleet for advice. She had learned everything she could and finally felt ready. For the last several days, all she had been waiting for was for the Normandy to make a stop somewhere she could purchase the antibiotics and herbal supplements she needed.

Everything she learned, of course, was kept secret from Shepard. While she knew that Tali was doing research, Tali had decided that it would be a surprise. She liked to daydream about what it would be like; maybe after a long day, arduous day, or after a dangerous and thrilling mission, while they're relaxing together in their quarters, she would whisper in her ear that she had finished her research and was ready. Her mask would come off, and they would kiss right then—she could only imagine what kissing was like. She would then remove the suit, freeing her from the shell that was both her prison and her key to life, and then they would make love together. She'd finally experience the feeling of another's skin on hers.

"There you are," Shepard said as she came into their quarters, and saw Tali sitting at the circular table. "We're going to be docking at Elysium shortly, to pick up some supplies for the ship."

"Elysium? Isn't that the major human colony you saved all those years ago?" Perfect! A big colony like that might have a place that sells the antibiotics and herbal supplements I need.

"Yeah, it is." Shepard said with some humility in her voice.

"I'm glad to hear we're stopping there, there are actually some things I need to buy for…" Tali stopped herself, remembering she didn't want her to know she had finished her research. It had to remain a surprise for her. "…for, uh… my suit. Supplies. You know, sometimes I need some materials for suit repair and maintenance."

"I understand. You can do that while I deal with the Alliance requisitions people for the Normandy supplies. Fortunately, we'll be docking near the market district, so I'm sure you'll find a place that sells what you need."

"I'll look up a place right now," Tali said as she reopened the extranet browser of her omni-tool, quickly navigating away from the article of quarian and human relations.

. . .

Tali stood in the market district of Elysium, looking at her omni-tool. She looked up at the sign of the store in front of her, and turned off her omni-tool's display as she lowered her arm. "This is the place," she said to herself as she walked to its door and stepped inside.

She approached the counter of the small store, where an asari shopkeeper stood; nobody else was in the store. Although Elysium was a human colony, Tali had noticed since arriving that there was a significant population of non-humans as well. At this point, it was no surprise to her to see a non-human shopkeeper. The asari looked well advanced in years—she was either near the end of her matron stage, or at the start of her matriarch stage.

"Hello dear, is there something I can help you find?" asked the asari with a smile as Tali approached the counter. Her friendly greeting was a pleasant surprise to Tali, who typically expected shop owners to be mistrusting toward quarians.

"Yes. I need to pick up some antibiotics, as well as some herbal supplements. I have a list of what I need here on my omni-tool," replied Tali as she typed into her omni-tool, fumbling slightly from some nervousness due to the nature of her purchase. After bringing up the list, she pressed an option on her omni-tool which reversed its holographic display, so that the asari could easily see the short list of complicated medical names.

The asari read it briefly, and her eyes looked up from the omni-tool straight at Tali's mask. She smiled, and asked, "Human girlfriend, huh?"

"What? Well, um—yes—but how did you, uh…" Tali stuttered out, completely caught off guard by the question.

The asari chuckled at Tali's embarrassment, cackling slightly. "Relax, dear. I've been selling health supplies since before your grandparents were born. It was just an educated guess."

"Oh, wow… so you've met other quarians that have had, um, relationships… with humans?"

"With a human? You're the first. Like I said; just a guess," the asari replied. She looked at Tali for a moment, and then asked, "Not that it's any of my business, but you seem pretty nervous about it—are you sure she's the right woman?"

A quick, slightly embarrassed laugh escaped Tali's mouth and she said, "She's definitely the right woman, trust me on that. I'm very lucky."

"Well, sounds like you really care for her then. I'll tell you what—I'll sell you these things on your list at discount."

"Really? Thank you—that's very kind," Tali responded. The friendliness of the gesture made her feel happier than the actual discount. She wasn't accustomed to ever being treated so well by store owners. "It's not often shopkeepers are so nice to quarians."

"I've lived many years. I learned long ago that people should be judged for who they are. Not what their race supposedly is. Look at the humans, for example. Since they showed up, they've had a reputation for being completely self-centered and headstrong, for trampling anyone who gets in the way of their goals."

"But humans sacrificed thousands to save the Council and the Citadel during the geth attack."

"Exactly. And I'm glad you bring that up. Have you heard of that famous human from the battle, Commander Shepard?"

Tali tried not to laugh at the asari's question. Have I heard of her? She's only my girlfriend, and the reason I'm in this store, buying things to boost my immune system… "Um… yes, I've heard of her…"

"She was well known on this colony even before her recent accomplishments. She saved us from a terrible pirate attack about seven years ago, the Skyllian Blitz. And you know what? I saw her in person—she helped not only humans, but non-humans as well, even the batarian residents. She's obviously a person above petty racism."

"She certainly is…" Tali agreed, with a certain slyness in her voice. I wonder if I should tell her. She probably wouldn't believe me anyway…

"Anyway, dear, I've taken up enough of your time. Here, let me get your medicine," the asari said as she turned around and began to look through the array of shelves behind her, picking out a few small containers. She placed them in a small bag, which she put on the counter top in front of Tali. "It'll be forty-three credits."

Tali reached into one of her suit pockets, and pulled out a hundred-credit credit chit. The asari scanned it, leaving fifty-seven credits, and handed it back to Tali.

"Thanks again for the discount. Take care," Tali said as she grabbed the bag with one hand and put the chit back in her pocket with the other.

"Goodbye. Oh, and… have fun," the asari said slyly and with a smirk. Tali laughed quietly to herself, blushing slightly as she left the store.

Tali stepped back into the market district of the colony, walking toward the docking area where the Normandy was docked. She took a moment to admire the colony's busy market district as she walked. She felt happy and comfortable on this colony of Elysium. This particular area was very crowded, which reminded her to life on the flotilla.

In addition to the crowds, the entire colony felt welcoming. Despite being a human colony, half the population was made up of non-humans due to its critical location on an important trade route. This combination of diversity, and the fact that it was the oldest human colony, meant that most people were generally more tolerant of other races. There was also a certain amount of pride in her heart, knowing that a major event of Shepard's life had transpired there.

Tali was now in the docking area, and she approached the Normandy. She saw Shepard saying goodbye to some Alliance personnel, who had just finished resupplying and refueling the Normandy.

"Just in time, we're leaving shortly," Shepard said with a smile as she saw Tali approaching. She noticed the bag in her hand, and recalled that she had mentioned she wanted to pick up some supplies for her suit.

"I ran into a fan of yours while in the market district."

"That's why I'm anxious to go. It's always nice to meet a fan, but they haven't left me alone since we got here," Shepard said as they both entered the Normandy through its cargo ramp, which had been opened for the resupplying. Shepard placed her arm around her waist as they walked inside.

"I'm surprised they're not scared of you here," Tali commented.

"Why would they be?"

"I've seen how you are on missions. Who knows how many explosions you caused while defending this place."

"You're hilarious, Tali. Really. That's up there with that time you asked if my armor was in good condition on Noveria," Shepard said sarcastically, but she couldn't hide the amused grin on her face.

As they walked down the cargo area of the Normandy, approaching the elevator, the ramp door closed and locked behind them; the loud noise it made was a reminder that they were about to leave. "I liked this colony—Elysium. In some ways, it sort of reminded me of the flotilla. I wish we could have stayed longer."

"It's a nice place, even with the fans, but we need to check out those ship disappearances in the Amada system. I'm sure we'll come back again another time, though."

"There's something I'm curious about, what does the word 'Elysium' mean in your language? My translator doesn't have a word for it."

"It's from one of our ancient mythologies," Shepard answered. "It was the place where the souls of dead heroes went."

They both reached the elevator, and stepped inside.